 count to five EOS one, two, three, four, five EOS and you EOS one,
two, three, four, five EOS okay, whenever you’re ready EOS cool,
right, go on EOS I don’t need a pen EOS what is your best or funniest
memory from when you were young? EOS erm, don’t even know, I can’t
even remember being young EOS no, neither can I EOS erm young do you
remember our Science lessons, they were well good EOS yeah, I love
Science, mm EOS fun, fun, fun EOS ah glad we don’t go school anymore
though EOS I know, I was talking to **anon** the other day about erm,
**anon** and how she used to send everyone to the unit EOS doesn’t it
feel weird saying that? **anon** EOS **anon**, **anon** EOS isn’t it,
I said **anon**- I saw **anon** and it felt well weird saying **anon**
the other day EOS Wetherspoons EOS no, it were- we weren’t in
Wetherspoons, was with **anon** and they were walking past the pub
that I was in, can’t remember which pub it was in EOS oh right, I
think he works at Wetherspoons, cos I went in there and he ID’d me,
and I was like, ‘I was in your year at school’ EOS I was just like,
‘hiya **anon**’ EOS yeah EOS yeah, it’s well weird seeing some- EOS
and **anon** mm EOS yeah, I saw him yesterday I was like, ‘hi’, and
like, ‘you work here?’ and then **anon** told me like, **anon** EOS
**anon**, yeah EOS yeah EOS just shocking EOS good who was your
favourite teacher at school? EOS don’t think I had one EOS yeah, that
makes sense EOS **anon** was pretty good though, he was funny **anon**
EOS oh, do you remember woodwork do you remember doing woodwork EOS
problem rubbish at woodwork EOS mine were always shocking EOS I
remember I made one for my Dad, you know that frame, with a flower in
it EOS I didn’t do that EOS for valentine’s day EOS we didn’t do that
EOS I don’t know why I made it my Dad EOS it’s a bit weird that, now
that I think about it, it’s a bit weird yeah, and now I don’t know
where it is but, I made a plane EOS I’ve still got some of my stuff
EOS I made a plane EOS I’ve got my plane, painted it pink EOS but I
don’t know where it’s gone EOS mines at m- my house EOS I think it’s
like, left it in the old house EOS oh, I’ll have to show you actually
when you come round to my house EOS what, your plane? EOS I still got
it, and there’s a little box thing that I made, it was proper
shocking, EOS money box? Yeah EOS no it was just a normal box and with
a lid EOS oh, we made a money box EOS and like, it’s not like even
sort of thing, it’s a bit wonky EOS oh right EOS and painted that was
painted mostly pink as well, don’t know why EOS I remember making the
bird feeders and th- you never put the thing on it EOS mesh thing EOS
and we never got it back, so, I was a bit gutted at the time EOS I’m
sure I did, cos I’m sure I put nuts in it EOS you probably did, I- I
was gutted that I didn’t get it back EOS how’s **anon**? EOS **anon**
EOS mm EOS yeah, he’s alright EOS aww EOS bless him EOS he’s growing
up, really, really quick EOS I can’t believe he’s one one EOS is that
your brother? EOS nephew EOS aww EOS he’s so cute EOS he is EOS aww,
he’s gorgeous EOS we’re walking round Trafford Centre, erm, and my
sister was trying to get some trainers or something, so me and
**anon** are walking round Trafford Centre and some of the looks we
were getting, like we were young Mum EOS oh no EOS which reminds me
right, on Saturday, I was at **anon** Granddad’s club and I was with
this little kid, babysitting sort of thing while person was working
behind the bar, so I sat there with it, and some of the looks I was
getting as well then EOS oh EOS like it was my kid, **anon** sat next
to me, well funny EOS aww, I used to like that EOS yeah EOS in a weird
way EOS go like, ‘oh yeah, this is mine’ EOS yeah, when the babies are
right there it sort of does make you want a kid but then EOS eurgh EOS
but then after that, there was this little kid- EOS you like giving
them back though EOS there was this little kid, and bloody screaming I
thought, ‘yep, that makes you not want a kid’ EOS yeah EOS ahh EOS aww
EOS they are cute though EOS makes me laugh ahh, we went to Gap, we
went erm, on Saturday, went and took **anon** round, aww I took my
boyfriend round to see my family and then, you know them lanterns we
like, tried to light one of them lanterns EOS oh, it was the most
embarrassing thing EOS why? EOS and it just- you know the bit, the
square bit what you light, it just fell off, I was like, ‘this is not
good’ EOS oh no EOS like, patting it out on the grass, I was like,
oops EOS and then we lit- finally lit one, and it like flew off, and
then it was like stuck in a tree EOS we was like, ‘oh my God, it’s
gonna set the tree on fire’ EOS ‘it’s gonna set the tree on fire’ but
then, it like flew off and we was like- my Granddad was stood there
going, ‘I’m not happy about this, I’m not happy about this, it’s gonna
set next door on fire’ EOS I was like, ‘Granddad, chill out, it’ll
blow away soon’ EOS it was so funny oh it was funny EOS did they like
your boyfriend? EOS they was, ahh they didn’t really see him cos I was
like, ‘no, we’ll go and sit in this room’ EOS ‘I don’t really wanna
sit with all them’, cos they wouldn’t stop asking questions EOS you
know what they’re like EOS was **anon** there? EOS no, she said she
was gonna be cos she didn’t- w- she said I think she was alright going
round to **anon** or something EOS mm EOS then she was like, ‘I don’t
really fancy going out’ I was like, ‘ooh, go round to Gran’s, I’ll be
there at about eight’ she’s like, ‘right, okay, I’ll see you there
then’, and she just didn’t turn up, I was like, ‘alright’ EOS so I was
sat there with **anon** with all the kids EOS was- it was great EOS
babysitting EOS proper getting terrored though ooh, they just bully me
all the time EOS yeah, they’re just like, ‘oh, he seems lovely’, I was
like, ‘he is’ EOS they always say that don’t they EOS everyone loves
my boyfriend EOS ahh EOS more than me probably EOS I know EOS been
nearly three years EOS wow, crazy EOS that’s a long time that isn’t
it? EOS yeah EOS gone quick though EOS mm EOS look at them dogs EOS
pink dog EOS ahh, that’s just mean EOS imagine walking that down the
road? EOS would be embarrassing you’d be like, ‘it’s not mine’ EOS you
can- EOS ‘I’m just walking it’ EOS can imagine the owner having that
colour hair as well couldn’t you? EOS yeah EOS dressed to match EOS oh
it’s hard talking when you don’t really kn- like EOS under pressure
EOS it is under pressure EOS I can’t think of anything to say EOS try
one of them I always think I don’t like they’re- they’re alright EOS
did you ever do anything after school? EOS erm, detention EOS yeah-
EOS apart from that not really EOS no, neither did I, I don’t think
EOS I think- no, I thi- actually I think I joined the rounders team, I
was pretty good at rounders, was quite- the only thing I was good at
EOS really EOS yeah, I didn’t like PE, I only liked it when we started
going to the gym EOS I know, and you didn’t really do anything, you
just stood in the gym going, ‘hm, champ’ EOS me and you are just stood
there like this EOS on the- on the running machine, and you’re just
having a stroll EOS yeah EOS we were just there talking weren’t we EOS
it was good EOS go to the gym now though actually take it serious EOS
I don’t, I just don’t- I just don’t do exercise, it’s not really for
me I don’t think EOS I’m tired EOS did you ever do drama? EOS me? no
EOS yeah EOS I’d hate it EOS neither did I, right but everyone’s got
like a lesson now, full of drama, like just for drama EOS what, in
like year seven and everything? EOS yeah EOS cos **anon** was like,
‘oh yeah, we was in drama the other day’ I was like, ‘you had drama?’
cos we didn’t have it EOS I think it’s cos it’s an arts and thingy
college EOS yeah EOS at erm, school, isn’t it EOS I was like, ‘oh, I
would’ve liked drama’ EOS mm EOS what you liked it or didn’t? EOS no,
I would of, yeah EOS ah well EOS quite good at acting I think EOS hate
these adverts EOS you know, right, on the first day, I remember Mum
walks me and **anon** to the bus stop, then stood there until the bus
came, it was so embarrassing, EOS and then she like asked one of the
year elevens, she was like, ‘oh, will you take care of these and make
sure they get to school alright’ I was like, fucks sake, ‘Mum, this is
so embarassing’ EOS that’s just reminded me of something that, on my
first day, I got my sister to do my tie, cos y- y- you didn’t have it
the right way, did you? EOS no, you had it the wrong way EOS you had
that little, small bit there EOS yeah EOS so now I did that, got to
form, had **anon**, do you remember **anon**? EOS oh yeah, EOS she
bloody made us blooming undo it EOS I didn’t know how to do a bloody
tie neither EOS oh no EOS so I was there, undone this tie, and I’m
thinking, ‘how do you do it?’ EOS just tie it in a knot EOS too- t- t-
took me ages to figure out- get used to doing it EOS we used to,
right, you know when, like, year seven you had them little tiny ones
then year eleven you got them big huge ones EOS yeah, but it was dead
small like EOS yeah EOS mmhmm EOS yeah EOS oh God don’t know what we
was thinking EOS I know, just as we come they got the blazers as well
EOS we had blazers EOS no, that’s what I mean, just as we got there,
that’s when they got them EOS oh yeah EOS oh yeah EOS cos my sister
didn’t have to have one until we started coming, our year, they just
brought them in EOS I quite like my blazer, I’m not gonna lie EOS it
had places to put things EOS I looked pretty good in it EOS it was
horrible in summer though when they made you wear your jumper and
blazer EOS and your blazer EOS no, really? EOS yeah EOS and you had to
ask to take it off EOS ahh EOS it was horrible you couldn’t just take
it off, no EOS you’re really hot though EOS I know, it was horrible,
like on the- we were allowed to on the yard EOS it was stupid yeah,
but like, in classrooms though it’s always warmer isn’t it EOS mm EOS
mm EOS but they’re not exactly gonna say no are they well, they can’t
really EOS so I don’t know why you had to ask EOS yeah EOS I know ‘no,
you can’t’ EOS ‘keep it on’ EOS you’re still gonna take it off EOS I’m
going to anyway, so EOS exactly EOS remember getting the cream eggs
actually at Easter EOS I remember when **anon** made me cry EOS no EOS
ah, that was horrible, cos like, I’d had a really bad morning, you
know like with my Mum and stuff EOS mm EOS and then I went in, and I
was wearing a leather jacket, and I was thinking, ‘ahh’, and I saw her
walking down the corridor towards me, I was like, ‘oh my God, she’s
gonna say something’ EOS it’s cos you had to wear a black coat EOS ooh
EOS and I was stood there, and I was like, and she was like, going at
me in my face, and I was like, ‘uhh, shut up’, and then I just cried,
I was like, ‘ahh’ EOS how embarra- I hate that EOS it was horrible she
went, ‘right, take- ta- take your jacket off’, I went, ‘it’s raining
outside’, she went, ‘I don’t care, take your jacket off’, I was like
EOS dead stupid EOS ‘alright’ EOS and them white socks EOS white socks
EOS you know when you’re wearing pants white socks EOS cause like but,
why would you wear white socks? EOS yeah EOS they look ridiculous EOS
but everyone used to just wear black socks anyway, and in EOS yeah EOS
year eleven we were allowed to weren’t we? EOS but why would you have
to wear white socks? EOS I don’t know, she went EOS it’s alright with
a skirt, because EOS yeah EOS it looks alright, but EOS it looks
alright, but, ahh, it’s like EOS pants, black, white, black EOS oh no
EOS that’s ridiculous EOS Michael Jackson style EOS yeah EOS yeah used
to get told off for it all the time black socks looked nice though EOS
mm EOS was really strict actually if you think about it EOS I know EOS
do you remember? cos they used to pick at anything didn’t they EOS mm
EOS ‘don’t do this, don’t do that’ EOS **anon** do you remember, cos
you used to roll your skirt up didn’t you? EOS yeah, obviously EOS si-
so it’s not like, down below your knee EOS yeah EOS yeah EOS and she
stopped me and **anon** in the hall, and she was like, ‘right, girls,
have you got your skirts rolled up?’ I was like, ‘no, it just won’t go
past my hip’ like, she was like, ‘that’s clearly a lie’, I was like,
‘okay’ EOS and she was like, ‘right, lift your s- lift your shirts up,
I wanna see your skirts’ EOS I was like EOS ‘see’ EOS and then we’d
walk past and she’d make us do our ties, have our skirts long, ah, it
was so embarrassing, EOS mm EOS and you’d walk down the corridor and
you’d be like, roll it back up EOS remember when they used to make you
tuck your shirts in as well EOS mm oh God, wouldn’t mind it with pants
though, just looked silly with a skirt EOS yeah, well EOS mm EOS
normally had a jumper on over it so you couldn’t tell anyway EOS so
they didn’t normally notice, unless it was like, hanging out EOS tuck
it under your jumper EOS see they’re the things I don’t miss about
school EOS school uniform EOS mm EOS I’m not gonna lie, I quite liked
school uniform, cos it was green EOS mm EOS but that’s only cos it’s
like my favourite colour EOS I like wanted a green car but EOS the
only one I could get was blue EOS you can paint it, paint it EOS my
Dad, the other day came round and he’s got a green car, I was like,
EOS ‘oh right, you couldn’t find me a green car, but you could get
yourself a green car’ EOS ‘thanks Dad’ EOS yeah, I went, ‘can we
swap’, he went, ‘Claudia **anon**, the insurance on this is gonna be
sky high’, I was like, EOS I know I need a car EOS ‘yeah’ EOS ahh EOS
sky high already EOS I need a job first actually EOS mm EOS passed in
December and no car still EOS mm EOS it’s horrible EOS I don’t know
what I’d do now if I didn’t have a car EOS I know EOS that’s the thing
EOS they’re horrible, cos I don’t walk anywhere, ever EOS it’s like
that with **anon** though, because I always get lifts everywhere so
th- that time when his car weren’t working, it was horrible EOS ooh
EOS just like not having your car for a week EOS I don’t know what I’d
do, I’d probably just sit in the house all the time EOS ah, I can’t
believe I dreamt that you said that you were getting the bus down EOS
today? EOS yeah EOS yeah, I had to check my messages EOS in my dream I
read a text saying, ‘I’m just leaving a bit earlier cos I’m getting
the bus down’ so I was think- I remember thinking, ‘oh, what’s wrong
with her car then?’ EOS and I had to look and I think it- it weren’t
there EOS she got in the car and I went, EOS ‘Erin **anon**, do you
even know me?’, the last time I got the bus was high school EOS well
that’s what I thought was weird EOS ahh EOS funny I can’t decide
whether I like him or not mm EOS hmm not watched- I need to catch up
on corrie actually went to Ibiza EOS ooh, EOS so I’ve missed
everything EOS how was it? EOS It was good actually EOS did you go
with friends? EOS my boyfriend EOS oh, very nice EOS hmm EOS Claudia’s
**anon** going away in October aren’t you? EOS with my Mum EOS and my
Gran and my Granddad EOS oh no EOS I know, Mum was like- EOS so you’re
not going clubbing? EOS my Mum- Mum was like, ‘are you ready to hit
the town with me’ I was like EOS ‘no’ EOS then me Aunty yesterday she
was like, ‘what if your Mum pulled’, I was like, EOS no EOS ‘that’s
what I want’ EOS ‘no, no’ EOS so, I went, ‘I’m not even going out with
her’ EOS ‘what if she pulled?’ EOS ah, that’s horrible that EOS
couldn’t even imagine it EOS I don’t want to EOS I know EOS ahh she’s
dead excited though don’t know why, she was like, ‘ahh, it’s gonna be
a holiday with just us’, I was like, ‘yeah’ EOS it will be nice EOS
yeah, it should be alright, wouldn’t really do anything EOS mm EOS sit
by the pool, relax EOS better than being over here anyway EOS in the
rain EOS yeah EOS God, it’s horrible EOS will be in October anyway EOS
mm EOS yeah EOS Mum and Dad go away the same time as she goes away EOS
ahh, you’re gonna be lonely EOS I know ahh, EOS well you’ll just have
to drink on your own again EOS can’t wait for Christmas, can’t wait
for Chris- it’s nearly Christmas EOS it’s like four months away EOS it
is actually, cos it is the eighth month isn’t it, I didn’t know it was
that close actually EOS my cousin told me, he went, what did he say?
He said there’s something like hundred and thirty three days or
something, I was like EOS what? EOS it’s a bit- bit precise there EOS
bit extreme EOS not been counting down or anything EOS oh God EOS I’m
not really that excited for Christmas anymore EOS why? EOS I don’t
know EOS I’m still like a little kid at Christmas, wake up dead early
I; ahh EOS like, last year was a bit of a let down EOS I don’t even
know what I got, what did you get? EOS dunno EOS I don’t know why I
even know what I get anymore EOS oh, I don’t know either EOS no idea
EOS ooh, I wanna know what I got now, I can’t think EOS for Christmas?
EOS what did you get for Christmas EOS erm, a Nintendo DS actually EOS
hm EOS I know, I’ve- and I’ve used it like twice EOS yeah EOS I hate
that, I was like, ‘**anon**, do you wanna buy this off me’ EOS he was
like, ‘no, I’ve only g- I’ve got my own’, I was like, ‘oh’ EOS gutted
EOS alright, ebay it is EOS turn the light on, it’s getting dark EOS
yeah EOS I was talking to **anon** last night, I was like, ‘got any
gossip about **anon** from school?’ it- she was like, ‘not really’, I
was like, ‘how can you not have gossip about someone’ EOS I wonder
what **anon** actually like in school EOS I know EOS I remember you
telling me that he got kicked out of that other school EOS got kicked
out of **anon** didn’t he EOS did he? EOS yep EOS why? EOS erm, long
story, EOS basically he set a bin on fire and then EOS and then
apparently he tried to put it out with deodorant, I was like, EOS what
EOS ‘what an idiot’ EOS you’re not- right- he’s not stupid is he? EOS
no EOS clearly know that it’s gonna make the fire worse EOS what was
it one of the inside ones? EOS I think so, and that’s even worse, cos
like could’ve set the whole classroom on fire EOS I was like, ‘what-
what are you even thinking when you do this stuff?’ he was like, ‘I
don’t know, I just do it’, I was like, ‘alright’ EOS he’s meant to be
the brainy one as well EOS I know EOS oh no EOS God EOS yeah he- but
he keeps saying, ‘other people were with me’, and I was like, ‘well,
why didn’t you say that?’ he went, ‘cos I didn’t wanna tell- tell off
anyone’, I was like, ‘probably wouldn’t have got kicked out then if it
was other people’ EOS a group effort, yeah EOS yeah EOS that’s
annoying EOS mm but I don’t- I don’t think he’s bothered really cos
he’s got like loads of friends now, cos they are, cos obviously, the
people from **anon** live in **anon** EOS yeah EOS so, now he goes to
the one **anon** he’s got all his mates in **anon** I; mm EOS so, it’s
pretty good and he’s always out now, so like EOS yeah EOS got the
house to myself in the day, EOS when he’s off, and it’s like- EOS I
love having the house to myself EOS I know boring though EOS I’m glad
my sister’s moved out actually EOS she moved out at Christmas EOS oh
EOS Mum keeps telling me to move out, she’s like, ‘so when are you
gonna get a full time job’ EOS ‘when are you moving out?’, ‘Mum, I
don’t know’, ‘you need to think about it don’t you’, I was like EOS
‘stop pushing me’ EOS ‘why?’ EOS oh God do you remember him, on that
magic show? What was it called? EOS yeah tricky TV- tricky TV, EOS
yeah, yeah EOS yeah, it’s sad that I know that EOS it is a little bit
sad, a little bit sad EOS Tricky T- EOS do you remember Art Attack?
That was good EOS oh, yeah which one was that one that died? Was he
out of Art Attack? Or Smart? EOS Smart EOS Was it Smart? Oh EOS I used
to love watching all them programmes EOS mmhmm EOS what did you do in
your summer holidays like, in school? EOS erm, like now? EOS no, in
school EOS oh, in school EOS yeah EOS I dunno, bit far away to
remember EOS you know where **anon** is, you know she’s got that big
field outside her house EOS yeah EOS we used to sit on there in the
summer, like, just sit there EOS I can’t even remember what we used to
do, we used to just sit there, and you know when you used to play
music on your phone EOS used to go out with **anon** was **anon** and
**anon** and all that go out with us EOS yeah EOS yeah EOS who else,
someone else did as well can’t remember EOS yeah EOS ah, I remember
the first Friday that I got drunk on the park EOS ooh EOS it wasn’t
very nice actually, it was quite scary EOS ahh EOS cause like everyone
else was out wasn’t they, and it’s like, mm, okay, so we just went and
sat on my friends grass outside her house EOS and then my friend, you
know **anon** EOS mm EOS I think that’s what he’s called EOS **anon**,
yeah EOS yeah he like jumped on the cars and like ran across them EOS
we was like, ‘oh my God you can’t do that’ EOS oh my God, EOS I was
like, I didn’t know what to do, I was like, ‘**anon** probably should
get down’ but yeah, and then I think it- I think it was **anon** who
got beat up that night EOS ah no EOS I know EOS I think I remember him
coming into school actually EOS yeah EOS saying that he was beat up
EOS yeah EOS or summet on them lines EOS and him and **anon** and
**anon** mm, they got together, but like, didn’t really get together
EOS I know it was weird EOS they like kissed and everything and then,
just nothing, I was like, mm EOS God, I remember that EOS it was
alright, cos they both liked each other, you could proper tell but
then nothing EOS remember when **anon** and **anon** were together
actually EOS and they went into a bush t- just to kiss EOS bloody hell
you look back now and you’re like, what the hell EOS I know, mm, in a
bush EOS I thought you was gonna say summet else then EOS no I; EOS
ooh, okay EOS ah, no EOS yeah EOS at least United won yesterday anyway
I weren’t paying much attention to the match EOS I don’t know EOS I
was just drinking EOS did you go to the pub to watch it? EOS yeah,
drinking from twelve ‘til like nine EOS oh no, headache today EOS I
got very drunk, no, I don’t get hangovers to be honest but EOS nice
EOS she’s lucky all the time EOS I’ve not stopped drinking f- since
I’ve back- been back off holiday, I come back on f- was it EOS Friday
EOS Friday morning so, went for ten days and I’ve not stopped drinking
EOS this is me first day that I’m not having a drink EOS it’s cos
you’ve got none left EOS I know- EOS b- I have, I have, I’ve not drank
any at- th- that was all spent at the pub EOS jeez EOS ah, I’ve still
got that vodka at home, got a litre bottle of vodka, ten ninety five
euro EOS wow EOS it’s good that isn’t it EOS Smirn Off EOS I think
it’s like eighteen in Tesco EOS was that duty free? EOS yeah EOS so I-
I thought, ‘right, I’ll get that’ EOS yeah EOS it’s good EOS went
round on Friday, I thought, ‘I’ll have a bit, EOS ‘go on, I’ll share’
EOS did, didn’t we went- went to Trafford Centre, then went to Asda,
had to carry all the bags, through- back to the Trafford Centre didn’t
we EOS she went, ‘it’s alright, we’ll walk to Asda from Selfridges’,
right, okay EOS and then when we - EOS and then we got there, it was
like, ‘we’re gonna have to carry all these bags through the Trafford
Centre back to the car’ EOS oh no EOS I forgot that we weren’t at-
parked at Asda as well until like we just got hold of the bags, I
thought, ‘oh, we’ve gotta walk through Trafford-’ EOS cause I was like
walking to the car, and she went, ‘Claudia **anon** where you going?
We’re going Selfridges’, I was like, ‘what do you mean, I’m gonna get
my car, to drive to Asda’, she went, ‘no, we’ll walk, we’ll walk’ EOS
God EOS we both didn’t know where we were going, I was gonna walk out
a blooming different exit, weren’t I EOS to try and get to Asda EOS
ahh EOS and it’s through Selfridges EOS yeah, it’s further than you
think as well, isn’t it EOS yeah and then I think- EOS and we had to
find which way it was, cos it- we were parked, was it at John Lewis?
EOS yeah EOS I know we always get mixed up between EOS oh no EOS like
Debenhams and John Lewis EOS you can see us walking all the way to
Debenhams and thinking EOS it’s at the other end EOS it’s the other
end EOS Peter Andre makes me laugh EOS yeah EOS ah, I wish he was my
Dad EOS I want Celebrity Juice to come back on actually EOS funny EOS
is that not back on next month, I’m sure it’s September it comes back
on EOS I don’t know EOS makes me laugh though Inbetweeners is out on
the seventeenth, the movie EOS I know EOS I’m so excited EOS I can’t
wait to watch that EOS the trailers look good don’t they EOS yeah,
have you seen the bit where Neil’s dancing in that club? EOS no EOS
doing the robot? EOS oh my God, it’s so funny EOS well the only bloody
trailer I’ve seen, which was a while ago now, cos I remember looking
on youtube was where they’re just bloody walking through a town,
weren’t the greatest trailer EOS oh yeah, I’ve seen that EOS just
watching them walk, I was thinking, ‘this is a great time to advertise
a film’ you know, if someone’s not seen it EOS ah, I’ve seen loads of
different ones, like- EOS oh, I’m gonna have to search it now EOS
where he squirts aftershave down his pants and then screams, yeah EOS
I can imagine that’d hurt EOS **anon** EOS yeah, we went to Thorpe
Park on Friday and it just reminded me of that EOS where he’s got-
he’s carrying the door around with him EOS yeah EOS ah, you should
paint your door a different colour EOS yeah, you should EOS no EOS
cause there’s just one door isn’t there that’s different EOS ahh, I
don’t understand why he carries it round with him EOS why doesn’t he
just like, leave it on the car, it’s not gonna make a difference
whether he’s still got it or not EOS and no-one’s really gonna steal a
door EOS you never know EOS someone’d steal the car, cos it’s not got
a door EOS mm, true EOS can’t believe I’ve come back to Manchester and
it’s horrible, was nice while I was away EOS I know EOS well, come
back and it’s horrible again EOS I even got a suntan, I was like, ahh,
EOS yes EOS come on suntan EOS just, and then I thought, I’m gonna
have to top it up with fake tan EOS yeah EOS oh, do you remember them
EOS when you used to go to like Wacky Warehouse or something, and big
ball pools and stuff EOS ball pits, ahh EOS you went down the slide
and went straight into EOS I’d always be scared of going in there you
know, cos kids are in there, and they EOS yeah EOS like could poo and
EOS stuff EOS I never thought about that EOS I thought you were gonna
say kids hiding EOS no, I’m not even bothered about, ooh, imagine like
eurgh, an old man EOS what EOS in the ball pit EOS Claudia **anon** y-
EOS no, have you seen, ah, do you watch the Big Bang Theory? Oh, it’s
so funny that, have you seen the one where Sheldon goes in the ball
pit, EOS yeah EOS oh it’s so funny, and he’s like going down, and then
Leonard’s trying to catch him and he pops up and he goes, ‘the zinger’
EOS so funny, oh, I love Sheldon makes me laugh EOS don’t even know
what they’re doing in there EOS having fun in a ball pit EOS proper
fancy McDonalds EOS mm EOS mm EOS you had it the other day didn’t you
actually? Oh no, you didn’t EOS no, I had Chin- EOS you had that
Chinese didn’t you, I forgot EOS oh my God, went Trafford Centre, had
a Chinese, and it was so spicy EOS was it? EOS my mouth was on fire
EOS oh it re- I was sat there with every mouthful just going EOS was
really nice though EOS you still ate it EOS I actually ate all of it
you know EOS got to really EOS is it expensive? EOS it was five
ninety-nine EOS six pound and- EOS it weren’t too bad EOS yeah EOS did
you eat all them peanuts you got? EOS no, I took them back right, I
don’t know why, I was craving peanuts EOS it’s a weird thing, and I
ate about four, and then I thought, I don’t even want them anymore EOS
so then I took them round to my Gran’s seventieth, and I was like,
‘I’ve got some peanuts here’, she was like, ‘ooh, put some in bowls’,
I was like, ‘alright’ EOS ah knew I should’ve got the small bag EOS
yeah EOS it was a huge bag, it was like this big EOS you’re like,
there’s not- there’s- EOS there’s not enough in this one EOS it was
huge though that bag EOS I know EOS you know they don’t do chocolate
erm, EOS peanuts? EOS peanuts in Asda EOS they do or don’t EOS don’t
EOS what? Strange EOS I know, I w- that’s what I was looking for, I
was like, cos I wanted some chocolate ones, you know, cos they’re nice
EOS yeah EOS and didn’t have any EOS there was none EOS I was like,
‘oh’, gutted EOS little bit erm EOS I was talking to **anon** about
the toilets in school EOS oh EOS do you remember when everyone used to
go in and smoke in them EOS yep, th- the ones were worse near- round
that other side EOS mm EOS past the EOS where they always played
football, can’t think of where it was EOS it’s like, do you remember
**anon** used to bring- used to bring a toilet roll into school? EOS I
don’t remember this EOS cos he used to always have a poo EOS in
school, I was like, ‘ooh, that’s nasty’ EOS was it **anon** had that
rumour EOS oh, yeah EOS don’t know if it is true EOS some lad poo- did
he poo himself? EOS yeah EOS in school EOS used his boxers as well to
wipe EOS ah, that’s disgusting EOS apparently it was all over the
toilet seat and everything EOS ah EOS ah that- ah that’d be so
embarrassing EOS ew do you remember **anon** EOS ah, the Art teacher?
EOS yeah EOS took everyone’s chocolate and food and EOS yeah EOS and
then didn’t give it them back EOS cause he was- was he diabetic or
something? EOS yeah EOS and he used to say that he needed like,
chocolate so when like EOS someone came in with a bar of chocolate,
he’d be like, ‘you’re not allowed to eat that in here’ so he’d take it
off them EOS and eat it himself EOS and then eat it himself, and it’s
like, ‘didn’t pay for that or anything’ EOS didn’t give him money,
didn’t give him money or anything, just took it off him EOS that’s bad
EOS I know God I seen him the other day actually EOS did you? EOS yeah
where did I see him? think it was Trafford Centre didn’t know who he
was EOS yeah EOS I used to love tomato ketchup actually EOS did you ?
EOS don’t worry, it was the advert EOS anyone listening to this is
gonna think I’m really random EOS don’t like it no more though EOS
why? EOS I dunno, I think it- I might- must’ve had it too much when I
was younger EOS and gone off it EOS I am really fussy EOS oh, no EOS
really fussy EOS like what? EOS what do you not like? EOS in high
school she used to have jam butties every single day EOS didn’t you?
EOS I just don’t like anything on my sandwich, do I? EOS no EOS and
now I just have bread and butter cos there’s too much sugar in jam EOS
well that’s when I go to- when I went college and stuff EOS funny EOS
yeah EOS ahh, them paninis in college, they were nice should’ve tried
one, they were nice EOS yeah EOS mm EOS don’t think I would’ve liked
them EOS ham and cheese panini EOS mm EOS mm, could- oh, I could eat
one of them now EOS ahh, why don’t you go college and get one EOS not
that it’s gonna be open but still EOS no EOS get one when we go and
get r- our results next Thursday EOS oh, no EOS oh God, yeah EOS it’s
so close EOS how do you feel? EOS erm, EOS I haven’t got a clue EOS I
don’t think I’ve failed any EOS that’s good EOS but I don’t think I
dunno don’t think I’ve done really badly just not great EOS mm EOS
it’s hard though, isn’t it EOS aye EOS very hard EOS are you nervous?
EOS yeah I don’t wanna go in EOS I am EOS and see all my teachers
though EOS cause they’ll be like, ‘oh what did you get, what did you
get’ and I’m like, ‘an E’ EOS they’ll just be like, ‘oh’ EOS it’s
annoy- it’s annoying though when people get good grades and they’re
like, ‘this is really shocking’ EOS I know EOS you know when like, say
they get a B or an A or like, C or summet, and they’re like, ‘oh, this
is rubbish this’, and it’s like, it’s not rubbish EOS it’s be- no,
it’s not EOS mm it’s better than E, let’s put it that way EOS but if
you wanna go Uni and stuff it is important, isn’t it? EOS mm EOS aye,
I need two B’s and a C to get in Uni EOS mm EOS hopefully I will EOS
mm EOS well, I can’t wait for everyone’s fresher’s week EOS yeah EOS
just gonna, go around EOS I know I can’t, but I don’t if it’s before
the like, actually Uni starts, I want my money EOS but they’re not
gonna give me my money, are they? EOS don’t know actually EOS what’s
that for, your loan? EOS yeah EOS it comes in just before freshers EOS
does it? EOS yeah, cos they count freshers as the start of term EOS
right EOS so you’ll have it, so EOS that’s good EOS cause I need it
EOS yeah EOS otherwise I won’t be going out much in the beginning EOS
no, you’ll have fun, freshers is good EOS mm I think I’m coming down
to Leeds EOS ahh EOS see **anon** EOS yeah EOS with **anon** EOS oh no
EOS mm, I know, I went out with him, I think it was not last Friday,
the Friday before, and I lost my phone EOS oh no EOS I know the only
time I go out with my cousins, and I loose my phone EOS have you got
it back? EOS no I know, in **anon** as well EOS ah EOS and I bet
someone who took it, cos I think someone took it, EOS yeah EOS cause
like, I rang it and it was off, and I was like, EOS mm EOS ‘someone’s
took it’ ah, was so upset EOS is it your Blackberry? EOS yeah EOS oh
no EOS I was so upset EOS now she’s got a Samsung, her old phone EOS
ahh EOS where did you go with them? EOS erm, just round **anon**, like
EOS bars? EOS yeah and then I think, it was a- cos we went to a pizza
place, you know, like you do EOS mm EOS after you’ve been out you get
a bit peckish EOS you do anyway EOS so- so I must’ve like put my phone
down EOS ooh EOS and got really excited about this pizza EOS and then
just forgot that my phone was there, but I went back the day after and
they was like, ‘oh no, we’ve not seen it, we’ve not seen it’, I was
like, ‘probably took it haven’t you’ EOS mm EOS yeah, they probably
did EOS so, and I went into all the pubs and everything, but, no EOS
that’s annoying EOS mm so now I’ve gotta save up for another one EOS
ahh EOS yay, fun times EOS and I’m skint EOS why are they all pound
signs on this map? EOS cause you can win it EOS oh EOS I don’t know
EOS wish I could win EOS money EOS sh- EOS when I win the lottery,
just don’t put it on though EOS I know, you should really put it on if
you wanna win it EOS I know EOS it sort of helps EOS that help EOS
yeah, yeah, little bit EOS I hope to win it, just don’t put it on EOS
hmm EOS Mum puts it on every week and I’d- I’d like to think that if
she won, she’d give me a little bit EOS I’m sure she would EOS mm EOS
yeah, my M- my Mum and Dad put it on every week EOS I don’t know where
they get that spare pound from EOS I know EOS I never have a spare
pound, it’s always in my car ah EOS you hardly ready- for anything
though on it, do they? EOS no, she wins like a fiver or something EOS
every now and again they’ll win a tenner or something EOS fun times
EOS makes me laugh EOS mm EOS made me laugh on holiday, you know like
the fruit machines and stuff that you get over here EOS yeah EOS
**anon** decided to go on a foreign one, didn’t understand it EOS but
yeah, he decided to keep putting more and more money in it EOS oh no
EOS someone who was in my Psychology last year, he’s got like a
gambling problem EOS he’s like, how old is he? I think he’s like
twenty, and he’s got a gambling problem, I was like how can you even
get one at twenty EOS cos he went, ‘I just go to the casinos every
weekend’, and I’m like, ‘why? W-Where do you even get money from to do
that?’ EOS **anon** goes quite a lot to the casino EOS yeah EOS wish I
had money to go to a casino but no EOS yeah wish I had a job EOS
having a car rinses your money EOS mm EOS like anything I have like
one night out a month EOS ahh EOS I know, it’s horrible but it’s so
expensive insurance, it’s ridiculous EOS always is these days EOS
**anon** got quoted nine thousand pound EOS to go on my car, and I was
like, EOS it’s not exactly a big car EOS nine thousand EOS nine
thousand, I was like EOS who would pay that? EOS I don’t know EOS why
so much? EOS I don’t know, I think it’s cos he’s a boy, but it’s meant
to have gone the same isn’t it EOS mm EOS so, it should really be the
same, cos we’re both the same age EOS nine grand EOS I don’t know,
it’s the same car EOS how much is yours? EOS erm, just under three EOS
you wouldn’t pay nine grand though EOS it’s not exactly EOS no EOS no,
I know, I was like ‘are you sure you did it right?’, and he was like,
‘yeah’ ‘hm, alright’ nine grand ah talking to **anon** about my scars,
cos I’ve got loads all over my knees EOS why? EOS cos I was just
clumsy EOS I’m just clumsy all the time, never broke anything EOS but
I’ve got cuts and, ah, I’ve got about four bruises now, and I’ve no
idea where they’ve come from EOS oh I always get bruises EOS it’s
like, all over me I m- I must like fall over a lot EOS but I just
don’t remember EOS yeah EOS are they from nights out? EOS probably,
probably EOS I’ve still got that bite on my leg it’s still like, you
run over my leg and it’s like a proper bad bump, it’s horri- EOS what,
from insects? EOS yeah EOS mm EOS horrible, hate them EOS ahh EOS told
I told **anon** about **anon**, you know **anon**, EOS well, everyone
knows **anon**, and he was like, EOS ‘really’, I was like, ‘yeah,
really’ EOS have you seen her? Recently EOS yeah, she’s got a- she
came to my Gran’s thing on Saturday and she had purple hair EOS purple
playsuit EOS purple tights, and I was like EOS nice EOS ‘do you think
she’s like purple at the moment?’ EOS but then she had pink crocs on,
I was like, EOS oh no EOS what are you doing with your life? EOS it’s
embarrassing EOS mm EOS and then you know, we all had like, stickers
on, name tags EOS nice EOS just in case people didn’t know who we are
EOS Claudia’s **anon** is in the car EOS as it’s asked the whole
family EOS ‘**anon**, **anon** granddaughter’ EOS it was like, ‘this
is ridiculous’, and erm, **anon** came EOS oh no EOS ‘**anon**,
**anon** partner’, I was like, ‘ooh, cringe’ EOS she looks like a man
doesn’t she EOS does she? EOS ahh, disgusting, right she had all her
hair, cos she’s grown her hair, she had it all scraped back in a pony
EOS oh, has she grown it? EOS and she had a suit on, not a sui- not a
suit, like a shirt and jeans, and I was like she’s proper- if you
didn’t know that she was a girl, she’s- she’s a man EOS yeah EOS she
looks like a man EOS oh no EOS it’s like, ‘oh my God’, it’s
embarrassing EOS well, she’s starting to grow her hair EOS ah, it’s
embarrassing EOS ahh EOS I was telling him, and he was like, ‘oh
right’ he went, ‘my cousins- my sisters a lesbian’ I was like, ‘oh,
right’ ‘thanks’ EOS go round to his house, and they like they they’ll
sit and talk about her, she’s not- she doesn’t live there EOS oh EOS
and they’ll sit and talk about her and it- they’ll be dead horrible
about her, and it’s like ‘that’s a bit harsh’ EOS so, I don’t know
what to say but they swear, all the time his family EOS do they? EOS
and I’m sat there, cos, we don’t swear, well, do sometimes but like,
not in front of like your Mum EOS yeah EOS and I was like, sat there
and they just, ah, every other word, and I was like, ‘oh my God, I
don’t know what to do’ EOS I’m just sat there like EOS ‘alright’ cos
it’s dead weird they’re dead nice though EOS that’s good EOS at least
you get on with them EOS mm EOS do you get on with your boyfriend’s
parents? EOS yeah aye, I get on with all his family EOS oh, that’s
good EOS ah, so tired EOS want my bed EOS my mouth’s dead dry now from
talking EOS have you got water? EOS yeah, I’ve still got some EOS good
EOS ah, right EOS my mouth was worse cos I was drinking yesterday EOS
I think the weather is making- it’s making my lips dead dry EOS mm EOS
and then they’re dead sore EOS my throat was dead sore cos it was dry
the other day EOS what are local people like? EOS not very friendly,
not really EOS ah, that reminds me, in the pub yesterday I was just
sat at this table, **anon** and his Dad were stood at the bar there-
EOS at **anon**? EOS no EOS oh EOS this was just at **anon** EOS this
was like at twelve o’clock and EOS this lad called **anon** EOS and
this old man there, so I was- I was just sat there, this per- lad
comes in all cuts down his arm, self harmer EOS oh no EOS blood shot
eyes, looked like he was on God knows what, come in, came up to me and
went, ‘have you got any- any money? Spare pound or something for a
drink? I’m shaking, I been out all night, soaking wet through, I need
a drink’, I was like, ‘no’ EOS mm EOS I went, ‘no’, and th- then they
went over to **anon** and his Dad an- and asked them, they were like,
‘no’, then he went, ‘right, just gonna go toilet to get a drink of
water’ and apparently- EOS ew, from the toilet, EOS **anon**- EOS you
can get free water from the bar EOS **anon** went into the toilet, and
all the basins were dry, so I bet he was trying to like get money out
of the machine thing, you know, like cos they have them machines in
the toilets, trying to see if there was money in them EOS oh, **anon**
there’s always this- I think- EOS I think he’s like homeless and he
wears like, joggers and then a coat, and that’s it, EOS ah EOS and
it’s like ‘mmm’, it’s a bit digusting EOS and he’ll sit with a pint,
the whole night, the same pint the whole night EOS it’s like, I don’t
even know how it lasts that long EOS yeah EOS it wouldn’t with me
anyway EOS I drink like a fish EOS okay Yeah. EOS One two three. EOS That’s fine. EOS W- EOS One two three.
Erm yeah th- that’s fine. EOS Do you want my name? EOS Oh no that’s
fine. Erm you can start now- EOS Oh- right. EOS Whenever you’re ready.
Thank you. EOS Go on then. You start then dear. EOS Well do you r- .
EOS What’s her f- EOS Can you switch off if you don’t think it’s
right? We were both born and brought up in **anon** in Salford. Is
that the- EOS Yeah that’s fine. EOS Yep. EOS Erm you lived across- we-
EOS I lived across the f- there was a football pitch. I lived at one
end and you- EOS And I- I lived with my grandma and mum and dad. Erm
and she had what they called then a corner shop- EOS Oh. EOS which s-
it sold everything. Bread and milk and erm we lived with her because
she’d just lost her husband and bought this shop and erm my dad was a
painter and decorator and had a lot of out of work. EOS And he used to
get three- he- EOS He- he worked for himself. He had his own business.
EOS He didn’t then. EOS Oh no he didn’t EOS And he used to get three
pounds a week- EOS Wow. EOS to keep us all and he used to give it my
grandma. And in return he used to get a couple of packets of
cigarettes. EOS So erm you lived across. EOS I lived across yes-
across the pitch. EOS Erm and during the war, just after the war she
used to put cigarettes under the counter for you didn’t she? EOS I- I
didn’t smoke then but I erm- I worked as a erm motor mechanic and the
lads there, there was quite a lot of them smoked and you couldn’t get
cigarettes because they were under the counter. EOS Oh. EOS ‘Would you
go and ask your girlfriend’s grandma’ . EOS Erm would she let us have
some cigarettes. Which she used to like- EOS Mm, mm EOS let us have a
few packets now and again. EOS But erm I didn’t have any brothers and
sisters. EOS But there were lots and lots of children. EOS Mm. EOS And
erm we used to play outside on the erm pavement. There were no
gardens. It was just erm streets in **anon**. And erm we used to chalk
the flags and play hop-scotch and erm play ball against the wall. And
erm hide and seek in peoples’ doors and I have been known to knock on
doors and run away. EOS And I got a good smack off my mother for doing
that because she caught me. And erm we used to erm- we never went far
away from where we lived and everywhere was very safe. There was no-
EOS Mm. EOS no erm hint of any people- EOS Danger. EOS doing wrong
things to children. EOS Not like there is today. EOS There was nothing
like that. EOS Mm. EOS No. EOS Where I lived anyway. Erm as I say my
grandma had a shop. EOS Erm I can remember bread being four pence and
milk being four pence at the same time. And erm she used to have this
machine where she cut all the bacon up by hand with a machine that you
turned a handle. And she had loads of sweets in one window and I was
not allowed to touch them- EOS unless I asked her could I have some.
Now I was allowed but if I was caught taking any I got another smack
off me mother across my legs. EOS She was a very strict- yeah. B: And
it never ever did me any harm. Erm and I did have to help out in the
house because we used to stone the steps. We used to stone the step of
the shop and stone the window ledges of the house- EOS Mm . EOS all
the way round. And stone the back steps- EOS The back yard yeah. EOS
with a- a brown stone or a cream stone. And while I was doing it I was
told to do **anon** next door so I had to do those as well. EOS And
erm what about you? What did you do? EOS What did I do? EOS When you
were young. What did you play? EOS Well I used to pla- play a lot of
football. EOS Yeah. EOS I used to love football and of course facing
the house was this big football pitch . EOS Which was horrible
surface. EOS Which was- EOS Oh was it? EOS int- in- incidentally- it
wasn’t- EOS It was like cinders. EOS I was a cinder pitch really. When
you fell down it- it used to take part of your knee cap off. EOS Ouch.
EOS So constant- constantly you had black marks on your knees EOS
where the cinders had gone in. EOS Mm. EOS And erm but I used to love
playing football and erm I used to also like repairing bicycles. EOS
But what- also what did you used to do? You used to go on the hills at
**anon** which was near **anon** prison. EOS Oh no. EOS And what did
you used to do there? You used to go swimming in the- EOS Swimming in
these- EOS horrible dirty filthy water. EOS Yeah. EOS When you think
about it yes. EOS There was they were like erm they were like big clay
pits and they’d filled with water and we used to go swimming in there.
I’d- Many a time I’d cut my foot, my legs because there was broken
bottle- EOS Oh no. EOS There was old prams in there. EOS Terrible when
you think of it. EOS When I think about it now. EOS I mean I wasn’t
allowed. EOS Yeah. EOS I didn’t know this went on until we started to
go out as erm w- when I was about fifteen or sixteen. Keith **anon**
used to mend my bike and I used to go for chips for all the erm- EOS
All the- all the- EOS boys and girls that were all round on the corner
there. EOS But erm EOS But m- us best or funniest memory was during
the war and erm we used to go- w- we had a back yard and it had a
little garden ine itwith a beautiful tree in it. The erm- EOS Oh erm
th- what’s- the elderber- EOS elderflower tree. EOS Elderflower. EOS
So we did have a bit of a- a little bit of garden but this brick- they
came and built these brick shelters. I can’t remember w- w- how- the
shelter being built. EOS But my dad made it very nice inside with beds
and we had erm some kind of a light in there and erm my grandma would
never ever come down when the air raids went. EOS Yeah. EOS And it was
very frightening- EOS Mm. EOS and it must’ve been very frightening for
them but I was only nine, ten. EOS Mm. EOS And it- to me it was a big
adventure. EOS And one night my dad was a- an ARP warden like you see
on erm Dad’s Army. EOS And erm one night they dropped all these
incendiary bombs on this pitch at the back of our house. EOS and they
hit erm- EOS And erm- EOS the prison. EOS my dad- EOS **anon** prison
that night. EOS Oh. EOS My dad dragged the dustbin out which in those
days they were metal dustbins. EOS Mm. EOS He dragged it outside and
he said ‘come on Brenda **anon** and help me fill it with water
because w- we’re going to have to put all these fires out’. And I was
running backwards and forwards and passing him all this water. And erm
we put the light on. EOS And I said to him ‘daddy this water’s not
going- there’s no water in it’. And unfortunately in the- so it- to me
it’s very funny this. EOS We were dashing backwards and forwards with
this buckets of water and there was a big hole in the dustbin. EOS So
as fast as we were p- EOS , EOS Putting the water in it was running
out. EOS putting the water in EOS Oh no EOS Yeah EOS So that to me is
a- a long- it’s- I mean it’s a long time ago and I remember that and
it was very funny. EOS And erm when these bombs these incendiary bombs
dropped they dropped one outside a lamp post. You used to have big
lamp posts in those days. I don’t know what- what were those lamp
posts erm- EOS They used to be gas. EOS Gas. EOS Gas lit. EOS Mm. EOS
And erm m- EOS Well they were, they were ga- EOS I’ve never seen my
grandma come down the stairs as quick. EOS She’d never ever got up.
She used to stay in bed. But she was down those stairs. EOS And one
night me mother came out and she’d got the budgie on her head. EOS Oh
no . EOS So she had to t- and I said m- I used to call her mammy
‘mammy’. The- I for- forget what the bird was called. EOS ‘So and so’s
on your head’. Sh- She turned quickly back and went you know went back
in the house so that was another funny memory. EOS And erm- about
parents- EOS Erm what I used to do was erm when I think about it now I
would never let my sons do that. But erm I used to erm when the air
raids were on- EOS Mm. EOS I used to go out with a- a bucket and a
pair of coal tongs and I’d be picking shrapnel up. EOS Oh EOS You’d-
you’d- you’d be s- listening ye- and you’d hear it going ‘shhhhh’ down
the road. And you could see it was white hot. When I think that really
that my parents let me go out- EOS Mm. EOS picking the sh- the
shrapnel- EOS Mm. EOS the pieces of shrapnel up. I had buckets and
buckets of it. EOS did you? EOS And we used to swap it with one
another you know. It- it- if it had got the German erm- erm- EOS
emblem on you used to erm swap it for something else. EOS Mm. EOS
Incendiary bombs had the German mark on. EOS Mmhmm. EOS And erm- EOS
But as I say we were children. It was an adventure to us. EOS Yeah.
EOS Erm I- I th- I thought it was great- EOS But can you imagine if it
happened now. I’d be absolutely- EOS Yeah. EOS Mm. EOS frightened to
death. EOS When you know what’s going on. EOS You would. It- it would
be a very frightening experience cos my mother was a very nervous
lady. EOS Yeah. EOS And she must’ve been absolutely frightened to
death. EOS Terrified yeah. But on this football pitch facing they dug
it all up and put the biggest air raid shelter you’ve ever seen on the
ground. EOS Really? EOS Yeah. And we used to go in there. It- it was
terrible. It was t- EOS Well I never went in. EOS Oh the- the smell.
EOS My mother wouldn’t go in there so- EOS But we- we had a- EOS Mm.
EOS one built in the back erm- the back yard. EOS Yeah they built
these brick- EOS Brick solid- EOS They were very strong brick. I meant
there were different types of shelters. EOS Mm. EOS My auntie who
lived in Urmston she had one and it was called a Morrison and it was
like a big cage. EOS A- anderson ones. They- EOS Mm. EOS Just like a
big cage. A Morrison. EOS Oh that was the Morrison yes. EOS And erm
she used to have a lovely- a lovely embroidered cloth on it- EOS and
flowers. And if the sirens went she used to go under there with her
husband. They had no children. Erm and then there were the Anderson
ones with people in the garden. You used to go down into those. EOS
Mm. EOS But erm m- there was w- called a blitz. Erm it was a christmas
blitz wasn’t it? EOS Yes that was the biggest . EOS Nineteen forty-
forty one. And my grandparents lived in **anon** which is in- still in
Salford. And when I think of it now they wouldn’t have allowed a child
but I was ten and my mother put me on the bus where we lived- EOS mm.
EOS to go and see- ‘go and see if your grandma’s alright.’ And I went
on my own you know th- EOS Mm. EOS it would be unheard of now wouldn’t
it? EOS Yeah. EOS And erm when I got there the street had been bombed-
EOS It’d gone. EOS and all the houses the curtains the windows were
all blown out. EOS Oh. EOS And I stood at the top of this street and I
cried. EOS Mm. EOS And this man came to me and he said ‘what’s the
matter?’ and I said ‘I’ve come to see my grandma and look at the
house’. He said ‘don’t worry I’ll take you’. They’ve taken them to th-
what they called a rest centre and it was in a church. EOS Church
yeah. EOS And he took me there. Now in this day and age I didn’t know
the man. EOS Mm. EOS Well you know y- EOS when you think. Erm there
was no- EOS I think- EOS there was none of that fear. EOS I think you
were safer then than you are today. EOS Oh yeah. EOS It’s- EOS I do
really think so. EOS Y- you never heard of people being murdered and
stabbed and- EOS No no. EOS and like I say you used- you used- you
used to t- travel quite a way on your own didn’t you? EOS Yes you did.
EOS young. Going to school. EOS Oh yes. I went to **anon** school.
Was- yeah- EOS Which is quite a way from- EOS I went to- I went to
**anon** School. Before that I went to **anon** School and my mother
used to take me and bring me home four times a day. EOS Really? EOS
She used to take me in the morning. Come home. Come for me at
lunchtime. We used to go through a- and a park called **anon** Park
which is still there. Take me back. Then come for me back again in the
afternoon. EOS And then I went to **anon** School EOS and I used to
walk there e- but if me mother could afford it I used to go on the
bus. EOS Mm. EOS And it was a g- a long way from where I lived. EOS It
was a long way yes. EOS So erm that school isn’t there anymore
**anon** School. It was called Bella Vista because it was the **anon**
consul at one time. EOS Yeah. EOS And it was a beautiful house. It was
really lovely. So erm and what do you remember from your first day at
school? I cried and cried- EOS and the Headmistress was called
**anon** and she said to my mother ‘leave her, she’ll be alright’ and
I sat at **anon** side on a chair for three weeks. EOS And she said to
me mother ‘she’ll get fed up before I will’. EOS Mm. EOS So that was-
I hated it and I was very upset and eventually **anon**- I got very
friendly with her and she eventually erm persuaded me to go into the
classroom . EOS No I never got into trouble at school. I was quite a
good child I think. EOS We- talking about holidays we erm w- never had
any holidays. Th- th- the erm- EOS oh switch it off. EOS That alright?
Is that ok? EOS Yeah that’s fine. Don’t worry. EOS Hello Telephone
conversation omitted EOS No thank you EOS They’ve got ten eight
hundred and thirty four pound vouchers to give out. So I don’t- EOS
Sounds a bit odd. EOS oh, they’re always sending me- EOS No I- I never
had- I never went on holiday. The only holiday I’ve ever had was- EOS
You had a lot of brothers and sisters. EOS I- I did. EOS I was an only
child. EOS Yes I had erm four brothers and one sister. And erm- but we
never had holidays. Only days out to Blackpool. EOS Mm. EOS But my-
one of my brothers- I had four half b- brothers. Step brothers. And
erm he- he was a mechanic and erm he- he- he used to do quite well and
he said ‘if you save your spends up’ which was about in today’s money
about five p a week- EOS erm ‘you can come away with me’ and he had a
m- a car which in the- those days was fantastic you know. EOS Mm. EOS
If somebody had a motorcar- EOS Well if you had a friend that was a
car- EOS Yeah. EOS that had a car it was absolutely marvellous. K:
Well he had a car and erm and erm he- he said ‘save your- save your
spends up and I’ll take you erm away for a week’. And he did and we w-
went to Wales and when I was sat at- I can see myself now sat in that
car. And I- I was hoping all my friends could see me - EOS yeah. EOS
going away on holiday. And that was about the best holiday I ever had
then- EOS Mm. EOS as- as child cos I never went away again after that.
Like I say we used to go, EOS now and again they’d take us to
Blackpool on the train. EOS Mm. EOS For a day. But erm that was it.
EOS Well I went to Blackpool once a year for a week. And what you did
it was a- I forget what they called it. It wasn’t self-catering but
you bought the food and the person that you were staying with erm she
cooked it for you. EOS Th- th- they- c- cooked it for you yeah. EOS Oh
ok. EOS I don’t know what they called it but th- they did a lot of
that in those days and that street it’s **anon** or **anon**. It’s
still there in Blackpool and we went once a week- erm once a year for
a week. can I go- move onto that one? EOS Yeah, whatever. EOS Yeah. Oh
I did get hurt while- when I was playing as a child. Like Keith
**anon** said erm I fell on this what we called a rec. We called it
the rec didn’t we? EOS Yeah th- it was a- yeah we called it a rec. EOS
I- I- It was short for recreation ground EOS mm EOS but we called it
the rec and I fell on there. EOS Ooh and I had terrible knees. EOS I
had- EOS and erm- EOS I always had- EOS They were awful- EOS and we’d
gone to- my mother had bound them up and we’d gone to visit me grandma
who was a- she was a lovely lady and they lived in **anon**. And she
said ‘what’s she done?’ and my mother told her and she looked at it
and she said ‘get those bandages off’ because they’d all pussed over.
EOS Oh no. EOS She said erm ‘let it- let- get the air to them’. I can
always remember it and within a- a day they’d- they’d all dried up. So
- EOS I’ve always remembered that ever since . Your home town. Shall
we go onto home town? EOS Yeah you can do yeah. EOS A- EOS Do you want
me to talk or- EOS Yeah go on I’ll- EOS are you going to say where
were your parents from? EOS Oh parents from. Well erm my parents erm
my father worked at erm- EOS from **anon**, from **anon**. EOS Oh my-
my- m- m- my erm mother’s family originate from **anon**. EOS Oh okay.
EOS That’s where erm- that’s where they were erm born. But my father
worked at Erm, **anon** which was at Gorton. **anon** were locomotive
engineers and he used to cy- EOS They made the big steam trains you
know. EOS Steam trains and that. EOS Oh ok. EOS And he used to erm
cycle from erm **anon** all the way to Gorton every- EOS Wow. EOS and
back again which is a heck of a way . Like I say in- in regards to
toys I’ve had very, very little toys. But my father had some cowboys
and indians made. He- he g- he got the erm the chaps at work th- that
make the erm moulds in- they made these erm moulds for soldiers and
cowboys and he- he made- he made them out of solid lead. When you
think now, EOS I used t- they weren’t painted when- and I got them for
Christmas and when I think I used to play with lead soldiers . EOS
Yeah . EOS You know which is really harmful for you. But that was the
only erm toys I had and I had them for years I was playing with those.
EOS My interests when I was a child, I’ve just seen that there, erm
was music. I learned to play the piano. EOS Oh. EOS And erm I- I loved
music in any- any form really. EOS Mm. EOS And I still do. I still
sing and erm we have a music group at church but of course that’s- i-
that’s lo- current at the moment but me parents, my father was born in
**anon** and my mother was born in erm- down erm in Salford in
**anon**. EOS Mm. EOS So erm I don’t know why me- me father came to
live in Salford but erm my mother’s never been anywhere- no she was
born here. EOS And erm I’ve got a picture of her when she was a little
girl. So she’d- she was born in nineteen hundred and two so it’s quite
and old picture . EOS yeah. EOS And if you ever want any old pictures
I’ve got them. EOS Erm- erm we didn’t move house at all. Erm we went
to live in that shop as I say with my grandma and the next move we
made was when she died and they sold the house, my mother and father,
and we went to live in **anon**. We were still in Salford and erm
Keith **anon** was in the army weren’t y- nati- doing his national sh-
service. EOS Yeah. EOS And erm we married from the house in **anon**
didn’t we. EOS Well I was in the army. EOS Yes he was in the army. EOS
Because erm- erm then i- it was a s- sergeant said to me- he said- I
told him that I was en- engaged- EOS Mm. EOS to be married when I came
out of the army. He said ‘well really you’d be better marrying because
you’ll get marriage allowance’. EOS Oh. EOS So w- we arranged didn’t
we- EOS Yes- EOS I’d been in the army about- EOS and I was twenty one.
EOS Yeah. EOS And y- Keith **anon** was twenty two when we got
married. Mm. EOS So we did erm get married- EOS Yeah. EOS and erm and
of course Brenda **anon** got the erm- the erm marriage allowance and
saved it up and we had a nice little nest egg didn’t we- EOS Mm. EOS
when- when I came out. EOS And that’s when I came up to **anon** from
**anon** with a friend who was looking at some houses erm on the front
there, near **anon**. EOS Mm. EOS They were building those semis r-
just round the corner when you go towards the Trafford Centre. EOS
Yeah. EOS There’s some semis there- EOS Yeah. EOS and erm **anon** and
she went to look at those and then we came to look at these on
**anon** and I liked these. EOS No we- we brought them up didn’t we
and y- your father’s- EOS No, no that was after. EOS Oh. EOS That was
after. No I brought erm I can’t remember her name now. No you weren’t
very friendly with her but then- EOS Mm. EOS I saw these and went back
home and told Keith **anon** and that’s- that’s when we came to live
in **anon**. EOS In- in th- EOS In this house in **anon**. Yeah. EOS
Fifty five years ago. EOS Yeah. EOS Wow. EOS Mm. EOS Yeah. EOS Mm. EOS
And we- we paid one thousand eight hundred and fifty pounds. EOS No
one thousand six hundred and fifty pounds. EOS Oh one thousand six
hundred and fifty pounds for it. EOS Sixteen hundred and fifty. EOS
Amazing. EOS Eh. It’s amazing isn’t it? EOS Yeah. It is. EOS But we
brought a friend with us who was my son- my eldest son’s godfather and
they lived in **anon**. And he was a very astute man and a very good
man and a- we really were very fond of him. And he came with us to
look at them and my dad was very much against us buying it. He said
‘you’ve got a milstone round your neck’. That’s what he said. EOS But
we were very happy living with your parents. EOS Oh yes- EOS They had
that big house in **anon** and- EOS we were very, very happy. And erm
my mother- and he- my mother thought the world of Keith **anon** and
he thought the world of her. Erm but erm **anon** this friend of ours
came to talk me dad round to say that he had bought his house and it
was three hundred and forty pounds. EOS And that was- EOS And that was
a milstone round their neck but it wasn’t anymore. EOS No. EOS And he
said eventually it will be beneficial to them. So that’s- he talked my
dad round and- EOS Well the thing was you could rent a house then. EOS
Mm. EOS You could rent houses. EOS Mm. EOS There was- there was plenty
to rent. EOS Mm. EOS I mean not like n- not like today. EOS But we
just liked these houses. We thought they were absolutely lovely and
erm m- m- what it- what was it we hadn’t got money for? Erm- EOS Oh
the erm- EOS and my dad lent us the twenty five pounds. EOS we didn’t
have the money for the erm the rest of the money for the deposit. EOS
Mm. EOS It was a hundred pound deposit. EOS Mm. EOS We’d paid forty
but there was sixty outstanding and w- we k- kept coming round and
having a look and it’s- once they got the roof on they wanted the
balance. EOS Mm. EOS Oh. EOS And I thought- the came and they’d got
the roof on. EOS And by the Keith **anon** wasn’t a mechanic. He was
working for me father who was a painter and decorator and you had to
have e- eleven pounds a week wages. They wouldn’t take the wife then.
EOS Oh. EOS It was just the husband it- EOS you know if you were
working that didn’t matter. EOS And I was earning ten pounds. EOS And
he was earning ten and me- my dad said to Keith **anon** ‘well tell
them you’re earning eleven but I can’t afford to give you that’. EOS
so EOS And he- he lent us the money for the erm- EOS Yeah. EOS the
balance. EOS But when you think of those figures. EOS Yeah. EOS I
know. EOS But you see it just- it goes on and on. EOS Yeah it does.
EOS I meant when- when you get older you’ll think well fancy those
prices that we paid then. EOS Yeah. EOS So erm yeah. Erm in your
opinion how has the community changed in recent years? Well I think it
changed tr- tremendously. Tremendously. There’s a lot of terrible
things happen now that I don’t think did happen then. Children are-
are not safe anymore like they used to be. And erm- EOS You can’t
afford to take your eyes off them can you. EOS and everything is so
expensive to take them anywhere. EOS Mm. EOS I mean my son has just
been away with four and he said when you go in a- just for a coffee.
EOS It’s six coff- well five coffees or five drinks. EOS Mm. EOS And
it’s so expensive isn’t it. EOS Yeah. EOS But erm everything has- has
really gone up in price. EOS The most important changes have taken
place in your town. EOS Mm well- EOS Well when we came round here from
erm- from **anon** we thought we were coming to live in the country-
EOS In the country. EOS Right. EOS It was beautiful. EOS It was so
quiet- EOS Mm. EOS and erm- EOS Mm. EOS You could park anywhere in
Urmston and erm- but now I think it’s- EOS And we liked Urmston as it
was. EOS It- well w- we did yeah. EOS But I mean now I think they’ve
just made a mess of it. EOS Mm. EOS because it’s part finished and-
EOS Yeah. EOS and they’re not saying- they’re saying until they- I
think they- somebody said that they’ve run out of money the
developers. EOS Yeah I think they have. EOS And erm- so it’s just a
mess I think. EOS I think they expected more people to erm buy those
apartments- EOS I think- EOS in the centre, but then- EOS Yeah and
they haven’t done. No. EOS No. EOS No. No they haven’t. And I think
they’re the ugliest looking things. EOS Yep EOS We only said the other
day look at all that horrible wood. EOS timber. EOS Mm. EOS Where’s
the design in that? EOS I know. EOS it’s not- EOS And then of course a
build-up of erm- I’m not objecting to the Trafford Centre but the
Chill Factor and erm all these big things that keep going up. It’s
just lost it’s erm I don’t know, prettiness really. It used to be a
pretty village more or less Davyhulme. And I know things have got to
progress but I don’t- I hate all these great big things that are going
up. EOS Yeah. EOS And erm I don’t know. Local people- EOS but we
remember the first erm- EOS We remember the- EOS shopping centre being
built in Urmston. EOS Yeah. EOS The precinct there. EOS Yeah. EOS And
it was nice. EOS It was nice before. EOS It was a nice precinct that.
EOS It- no it was nice before that they did that I thought. EOS Mm mm.
EOS It was quite quaint. I’ve s- I’ve got loads of pictures of that.
EOS Mm. EOS How it used to be . But erm- EOS But I do think there’s a
lot of community things happening now like erm the man that owns
**anon** that **anon**. EOS Yeah. EOS Now f- I think it’s the third
year now that he’s put this community erm- EOS The summer- EOS sort of
a carnival type thing hasn’t he. EOS Yeah. EOS In the grammar school
gardens and I think- we went because my granddaughters were dancing.
EOS Ah. EOS They go to **anon**. EOS Mm. EOS And they were doing this
dancing group and we went to watch them and I just thought it was
lovely. EOS Yeah. EOS Yes. EOS All the people- local people all
mingling with one another. EOS Mmhmm EOS And I really- I r- it really
uplifted me to see them all having a good time and there was no
trouble. EOS Yeah. EOS Erm and I think the community spirit here is
better and hope it will get better. EOS Mm. EOS Erm the carnival on
Saturday- there’s the carnival on Saturday and for the first time
there’s erm an ecumenical church tent being erected. EOS Right. EOS
And they’re giving free teas and cakes. In fact we’re involved with
it. EOS Mm. EOS And it’s the first time they’ve done that and erm
hope- hopefully well they will be telling people all about the things
that go on in all the churches. Hopefully we might get a few more
people to come. EOS Yeah. EOS But it’s still a community thing and I
think- EOS Gets people together yeah. EOS it’s a good thing for the
community EOS Mmhmm EOS Yeah I li- I- EOS Yeah and erm there’s not
really- when you look at the television and see all the horrible
things that happen in other towns. I don’t know I’ve never heard of
anything horrible - EOS No I haven’t EOS happening in Urmston at
night. EOS No. EOS So I just hope that erm- there’s- I think there’s
quite a long of thing to ha- to do in this community if you’re willing
to erm- EOS you know different erm- erm what- what can I call them,
different groups. So you needn’t be bored. There’s lots to do really.
EOS Yeah. EOS If you go out and look for it. What’s your- do you agree
with me? You see- EOS Yes I d- EOS we’re very involved in church so
I’ve always got something to do. EOS Mm. EOS I mean I’m going out
tonight. No I’m going out tomorrow and erm going out next week all the
meetings start so I’ll be out about three nights a week which is erm-
is very good. EOS Mm. EOS Mm. Right . EOS erm- erm. EOS I think it’s
very sad that erm TJ Hughes has gone from Stretford. EOS Yeah. EOS I
think it’ll be a- make a big difference to Stretford erm- erm town
centre. Erm cos I like- I like that erm shopping precinct. It’s
pleasant and it’s warm and- EOS Mm. EOS erm it’s somewhere for people
to meet. I don’t know what’s going to happen there. EOS Did you ever
get into trouble at school? Going back a bit now aren’t I really. EOS
Does it matter? EOS No of course it doesn’t. EOS No it doesn’t matter?
Yep . EOS Did you get into trouble? I didn’t- EOS Yeah- oh no you
didn’t, no. EOS I was perfect EOS Hey we- we used to c- I went to
**anon** School first and from there I went to **anon** school,
**anon**. And on the way home from when we were at erm- EOS erm
**anon** the erm- we used to pass this house that had a cherry tree
hanging over the wall. And ev- everyday you passed it seemed to get
redder and redder these cherries and me and my friends one day we
thought I think we’ll have some of those . EOS And we climbed on the
wall and just pulled a little bunch down and we both had one each. And
they were horrible. EOS oh no. EOS But we didn’t- unknown to us there
was policeman behind us who grabbed us EOS and took us back to school.
And erm the next morning we had to come out in front of the- all the
assembly and the pair of us were brought out to the front and- and the
teacher erm- the teacher said- the Headteacher said I’d have- we’d
have to go to his room after and of course we were- our heads down and
we both got the cane on both hands. And when we used to walk past that
house with those cherry trees EOS we used to have our hands in our
pockets . EOS Mm. EOS Yeah well I think there again- I think it’s gone
from the sublime to the ridiculous. EOS Yes you’re not allowed to
touch- EOS Because I think it’s digusting now that children have got
no respect- EOS Mm. EOS for policemen and really a lot of them have
not got any respect for anybody. EOS Anybody. No. EOS And they try and
blame everybody bar the parents. EOS I know. The riots were terrible
weren’t they. EOS Oh that- EOS Oh that was terrible. Well what’s
uplifted me **anon** was the m- the all those young people going in
and cleaning up. EOS Yeah. EOS Yes. EOS I thought that was wonderful
EOS Yeah. That was brilliant. EOS And some of them looked- I thought
golly you’d- EOS yeah. EOS You know so you can’t tell by how people
look. EOS No you’re right. EOS No. EOS But I do think it’s erm you
know that being allowed to throw stones at policemen. I was frightened
to death of policemen. EOS Oh yes. Y- EOS I- that was silly but I’d
rather it be like that- EOS Mm. EOS than like it is now. I mean
policemen are there to erm to keep- EOS To protect the- EOS to protect
people- EOS protect the public. Yeah th- EOS and the public. EOS And
they get a terrible lot of bad pub- publicity. EOS Yeah. EOS And I
know maybe there are some sadistic policemen but most of them are very
good and decent men. EOS Yeah. EOS And erm I just think it’s awful
that children should be taught to have more respect. EOS Mm. EOS Erm
and I still blame the parents for a lot of these children. EOS Yeah.
EOS Yes it’s sad really. I- EOS And I think a lot of these children as
well are from broken homes and they’re living in erm social erm- erm
they’re- they’re under the care of the erm- Trafford. EOS Yeah. EOS
And erm I’ve heard reports that they just run wild and you’re not
allowed to touch them. You’re not- if- they know that if you touch
them they can report you. EOS Mm. EOS And I mean I used to get lots of
smacks off my mother and it never did me any harm at all. And erm I
can always remember when I was- my mother had just given me a good
hiding and she’d gone into the kitchen and I walked behind her and
pulled my tongue out. EOS And she turned round and I got another one.
EOS oh no. EOS And I said ‘what was that for?’ ‘because’ she said
‘you’ve just pulled your tongue out haven’t you?’. And years after I
said ‘how did you know?’. She said ‘I just knew you were going to do
that’. EOS But we end- we were always the best of friends. EOS Mm EOS
Really good pals. EOS Erm I can stop that- this now if- Yeah. Can you just count to three please. EOS One, two, three. EOS
Yeah. Ok that’s great. When you’re ready. EOS Ok Arnold **anon**. I’ll
kick off- we’ll kick off with you shall we? EOS What? EOS Your best or
funniest memory. EOS Best or funniest memory from when I was young.
EOS When you were young. EOS Erm- EOS Can you remember that far back?
EOS w- h- how young are we talking about here? EOS Well- EOS Very
young. EOS Again it depends really on how far back you can remember .
EOS Yeah, I think the best- probably the best memory I have of- of
being young is- is Christmas time when all the family used to get
together in those days we- we always had all our aunts and uncles and
cousins round on Christmas day and- EOS Yeah. EOS and erm- we- w-
there wasn’t an awful lot of money but erm we used to have quite a big
s- slap up meal at lunchtimes and lots of games and lots of fun. No
television of course in those days so yeah that’s probably the best
memory I’ve got from being young. EOS How young were you then? When
you did- EOS Oh from- EOS when you did change? EOS I would think that
was from being- from as early as I can remember being through- going
through to being about twelve. Something like that. EOS So your life
changed soon after you’ve met me? EOS Yeah, yeah, yeah. EOS Yeah. EOS
But erm a- as- as people grew older they didn’t want to- EOS families
got bigger as well. They did- EOS Yeah. EOS th- they didn’t get
together the same. EOS Up to that age I erm- I think my Christmases
were very similar in that people came to us for a Christmas lunch. But
because the erm, accomodation that we had at the time was a bit
cramped all the children went into the back room and the adults were
in the main dining room cos that’s when we lived at the laundry. We
had a chinese laundry in those days. EOS Really? EOS And the- the
front room was shop. EOS Yeah. EOS It was where we did the ironing,
stored the laundry that had been packaged. EOS Mm. EOS And the middle
room was the living room where we did everything . EOS And the back
room was the stove room. EOS There was a coal fired stove with flat
irons against it. But there was a big table in there as well. So
that’s where the kids sat to have their Christmas dinner. But it was
still good fun and happy times. EOS How many of you? EOS In total
people- oh- well there was- EOS Kids. EOS three six erm I- I can’t
think of it. Two sisters at the time **anon** and **anon**, myself.
**anon** wasn’t with us then. EOS Oh ok. EOS **anon** was an after
thought. EOS yeah EOS I think my mum thought she was going to get a
new washing machine for Christmas you know. She got **anon** instead.
EOS Mm. EOS Erm then there’d be my three cousins **anon**, **anon**.
You’ve met **anon** haven’t you? EOS Yeah. EOS From **anon**. EOS
Yeah. **anon**. EOS And **anon**. EOS Mm. EOS And erm- EOS and there’d
be my grandad. Auntie **anon**, mum, dad, uncle **anon** and auntie
**anon** they were **anon** parents. Uncle **anon** and auntie
**anon** they were Pamela’s **anon** parents. Auntie **anon** used to
come on her own because grandad didn’t like uncle **anon**- EOS and
uncle **anon** didn’t like Grandad . So he- had the- he had Christmas
dinner with his mother. EOS Aw. EOS So there was a lot of us. EOS Mm.
EOS And erm the odd friend. People like that used to pop in throughout
the day. Erm- but one of the most memorable things as a kid happened
when I was at the laundry. Erm when me grandmother was alive she used
to make beetroot wine. EOS Ok. EOS And you had to wait for it to
mature- EOS before you drank it. But I was being a little bit eager
and I opened one before it was ready and it was like champagne and
this red fizz went a- all over- EOS Ah- oh no. EOS freshly laudered
sheets, shirts, pillow cases. EOS Ha. EOS A whole days washing was
absolutely ruined. And I think I went to me bedroom, locked it, and I
was there for two day . EOS I was scared stiff of me grandad. EOS Hm.
EOS He really did rule the roost. EOS Really? EOS Yeah. Fearsome
character but erm extremely kind as well - EOS and hard working. EOS
Yeah. EOS His day used to start at about six o clock in the morning
and go on till three o’clock the following morning. EOS Wow. EOS That
was Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday. Thursday, Friday, Saturday his day
started at nine and finished about five. EOS Yeah. EOS But the laundry
was all done by then and it was just a question of taking in new stuff
and delivering your- or doleing out the laundered stuff to the erm-
the regular customers cos they nearly all were regulars in those days.
EOS Yeah. EOS They all had their own laundry mark which was written on
the back of their laundry in small chinese writing EOS Mm. EOS Mm. EOS
We didn’t know the names we just knew the mark EOS Mm. EOS Yeah but
that was all before I knew you wasn’t it Arnold **anon** the erm- EOS
That’s right yeah. EOS the laundry. EOS Yeah. EOS You hardly ever went
did you to the laundry? EOS No I never went to the laundry no. We- we
had erm- when I was nine year old we- we moved into a shop. We used to
have a shop in **anon**. My mother’s ran the shop. It was erm- EOS Mm.
EOS ladies and children’s wear shop. EOS Oh ok. EOS We had a few
different sidelines as well. And my mother used to work six days a
week in that. EOS Yeah. EOS Me dad was an engineer so he went out to
work where he used to help on a Saturday. EOS Yes love. EOS And erm
when we were there for six years altogether and erm one of the things
I think I’ve mentioned this to Barney **anon** before that always
sticks in my mind that was on- on a Saturday because my mother was
still working in the shop- EOS Yeah. EOS I used to go to the local
chip shop for lunch and I used to get three lots of fish and chips for
half a crown in total. Now half a crown was twelve and a half pence.
So that just shows how prices have changed. EOS Yeah. EOS But erm one
of the best things about living there was the fact that we had a
double cellar and in the cellar we used to have a- a shooting range.
EOS Wow. EOS With an air rifle. EOS Erm and my dad would set up so you
could- you could- you could put targets- three targets in at one end-
EOS Yeah. EOS and th- and then shoot down this little- EOS walled area
and erm- EOS we also used to do photography as well in the cellar. We
used to d- do our own developing and printing and erm cos we had
running water in this cellar. We had a sink in the corner so- so erm
yeah good times yeah. But it- EOS Yeah we used to do some of that
didn’t we at- EOS We did that in erm- EOS in my bedroom. EOS in- in
the attic didn’t we. EOS Yeah in the attic but there was no running
water there. EOS No. EOS Mm. EOS I don’t know how we coped really. EOS
Yeah. EOS We did everything in my bedroom. EOS Right. EOS There was a
snooker table. EOS Really? EOS Yeah and we did the photography on top
of the snooker table. EOS That’s right. EOS And when we weren’t doing
the photography we were playing snooker. And somehow we managed to fit
my bed at the other end. EOS Yeah. It was a big s- a big attic. EOS
Yeah. EOS That was a big attic bedroom. And it wasn’t a small snooker
table it was a three quarter size snooker table. EOS Really? EOS Yeah.
EOS Yeah. EOS It was too big for a normal house and I gave it to erm a
youth club- EOS Mm. EOS in **anon** and erm unfortunately it closed
down soon afterwards didn’t it. EOS Oh no . EOS Mm mm. EOS And I don’t
know what happened to that table. EOS Mm. EOS Erm todays prices it was
probably worth about five, six hundred pounds. EOS Mm. EOS Wow. EOS
But nobody wanted it cos nobody had room for it. Sign of the times.
EOS **anon** taken my glasses away. I know it’s big print. EOS Are
they yours? EOS Mm? It’s alright. EOS Shall- EOS I can read just fine.
EOS shall we move on to another- EOS Yeah. EOS question? EOS Would you
like some water? I’ll just get some. EOS Do you want me to- I can get
you some if you like. EOS Will you? EOS Yeah. EOS We’ll carry on
talking. EOS Please. EOS Where are the glasses? EOS Ah. Ask **anon**
she’ll know. EOS Oh ok. EOS So- EOS Were there a lot of kids to play
with when you were growing up? EOS There was when I- when I lived in
**anon** before we moved to the shop. Erm there were quite a few kids
in the street and they- EOS Mm. EOS erm all similar aged. Erm and
because it was a cul-de-sac it had a sort of a- a- it opened out and
there was a- a- a good play area for kids but we had all the fields at
the back as well. EOS And erm yeah there were quite of- quite a number
of erm both bl- boys and girls to play with. EOS Yeah yeah. EOS Erm I
was saying the age difference probably was three or four years older
than me to three or four years younger than me. So lots of kids. EOS
Yeah I was the same. We had lots of kids when I was at junior school
because in those days most kids went to school near where they lived.
EOS Yeah yeah. EOS Nobody went to school by car. EOS No. EOS I don’t
know how we managed. Thank you. EOS Thank you. EOS You get a waitress
service as well. EOS You got some- can I have one of those mats? EOS
Oh yeah. EOS Thank you. EOS Can I just say when we went to junior
school all the kids lived near the school. EOS Yeah. EOS Nobody ever
went to school in a car. EOS Not even the teachers. EOS Really? EOS
They didn’t have cars did they. Oh I think maybe the headmaster did.
EOS Maybe I think b- by the time we went to grammar school they
probably did- EOS Yeah. Headmaster had one. EOS but I don’t remember
any of the- any of the teachers at junior school having- EOS No EOS
cars at all. But at grammar school they used to park just behind-
well- well I went to **anon** school. There’s- I did three years at
**anon** school erm before I moved to **anon** where Barney **anon**
was. EOS Oh ok. EOS Erm travelling from the shop in **anon** was about
four miles to **anon** school from there and there were probably three
or four teachers had cars in those days. EOS Mm. EOS And one of the-
one of the erm- the thing that everybody envied was my cousin. He was
in the sixth form when I started. EOS And he had a motorbike and he
used to park this motorbike in the- in the little- there was a little
extension to the playground where the teachers- EOS parked their cars.
And he used to erm leave his bike there and I was the envy of the
other kids when I got a lift home with him. EOS Yeah. EOS Yeah. We had
a g- EOS Cause there were no crash helmets in those- you just got on
the back and went didn’t you. EOS Yeah there were always a couple of
guys at **anon** school had motorbikes and they were always the ones
that had girlfriends and erm- EOS Yeah. EOS They’d imaged themselves
on James Dean and erm- EOS Mm. EOS Tony Curtis- EOS Mm. EOS who you
might’ve heard of. EOS Yeah. EOS And they were always the rebels who
left school with no O-levels and erm- EOS Yeah. EOS but lots of
girlfriends. EOS yeah. EOS Lots of reputation behind them- EOS Mm. EOS
which they c- couldn’t put on theirs CVs . EOS But at junior school
lots of kids to play with. Erm- EOS Mm. EOS Out- out playing everyday.
Erm I don’t think our parents had any fears about us going out and s-
being out. EOS No no. EOS Erm- EOS When we lived at the shop in
**anon** there was just down the lane was a park with swings and- and
roundabouts and- EOS Yeah. EOS sliding and erm we used to spend all
day there sometimes you know you- you didn’t w- h- worry about your
kids being out. EOS No. EOS Never heard of paedophiles and erm- EOS
Well it was a word that hadn’t been invented I don’t think. EOS Erm I
don’t think it had no and- EOS Erm we had one in Eccles who I now
realise was a paedophile. EOS Yeah. EOS Everyone knew him so you just
avoided him. EOS He was called **anon**. EOS Yeah. EOS and he wore a
big fedora- EOS Yeah. EOS hat. EOS Keep it anonymous. EOS Yeah. EOS
Yeah I’ll not tell you his surname. EOS His surname. EOS And he wore a
big long mac and great big boots. He was straight off a Lowry. Erm and
he had a most horrible face and sometimes you could walk down towards
**anon**- EOS Mm. EOS and you’d see him on the aquaduct. You could-
his image was there. So y- you now had to decide did you wait for your
mate before you went over the bridge to go to church- EOS or did you
just wait ‘til he was looking the other way and run like hell. EOS
Well that’s how we coped with paedophilia in those days. Just avoiding
**anon** EOS I know. EOS I never got that close to him. I don’t re-
EOS Oh . EOS I don’t remember what he looked like . EOS Oh I- I go-
EOS I think he was just a legend when I went to- EOS when I got to
**anon**. EOS I got too close to his brother one day erm- there was a
guy who was in our year at grammar school **anon**. Do you remember
**anon**? EOS Yeah yeah. EOS Oh he lived near **anon** and he had a
mad brother. And if people used to hang about outside their house he’d
open the window and he used to have a jerry under the bed. EOS A wee
pot or whatever . And he used to empty it. EOS oh no. EOS So- over
whoever was standing outside his house. EOS . EOS Aye that was
**anon**. EOS Mm. EOS But we were lucky where we lived **anon**
because there were lots of fields nearby. EOS Yeah. EOS Erm **anon**
didn’t exist and you were soon going toward **anon** EOS mm EOS and
round there there were lots and lots of fields where you could just
enjoy yourself and- EOS Yeah. EOS go home with jam jars full of newts
and tadpoles and erm- EOS Tha- that’s right and there was- EOS and
there was no traffic on the roads. There was- EOS No. EOS there were
very few cars so you- you- there was danger of crossing main roads
and- mm- EOS No you could go on your bike anywhere. EOS Yeah. EOS I
mean regular bike trips were- EOS Mm. EOS places like Lymm, Pickmere.
EOS Mm. EOS And if you were really fit Chester or Southport. EOS
Southport even. EOS Really? EOS Mm. EOS Mind you I did Chester once
and I was so tired when I got there. EOS not surprised. EOS Had my-
had my sandwiches bottle of pop., and I said ‘we’d better get off’ .
EOS ‘If I stay much longer I’ll fall asleep and I’ll never get home’.
Ah- it seems to take forever in a car now. EOS It does- EOS Mm. EOS It
takes- it seems to take longer in a car than it used to on the bike.
EOS It’s- so does Southport. EOS I’m sure. Used to- we always used to
reckon Southport was thirty miles but- EOS I’m sure it’s- it- it’s the
road system. Must be the road system these days it’s- it’s nearer
forty- EOS Mm. EOS you know. EOS Yeah. EOS I noticed one of the
questions here says did you ever get hurlt- hurt whilst playing when
you were a kid? I remember breaking my arm once. EOS Oh. EOS We used
to have- in our garden we used to have a- a six foot wall at the back.
Drop down. And we used to swing on a s- on a washing line- EOS out and
drop into the garden. EOS Yeah. EOS And my f- ankle got tangled up in
the rope. EOS Oh no. EOS So I swung out and my ankle stayed where it
was- EOS Oh. EOS Ah. EOS and I went down and I broke my arm. That’s
erm- I’ve only had three breaks in my life and that was the first one.
EOS I’ve- I’ve never had a break. EOS Haven’t you? EOS No. EOS Yeah.
EOS Yeah. EOS Mind you I’ve never played rugby and you have. EOS My
only- I’ve only had one break playing rugby and that was this erm
metatarsal but erm I broke my ankle playing soccer- EOS Oh. EOS when I
was about eighteen, seventeen perhaps. Mm. EOS Yeah the only visit I
had to erm casualty as we used to call it not accident and emergency
was when I fell off a swing. Must’ve been about nine, ten and there
was a little bit of competition going on to see who could do the most
daring things on the swing. EOS Like jump off while it was still in
the air and not using your hands and just s- sticking with it and I
got to the back swing and just fell off chin first. EOS oh no. EOS Mm.
EOS Yes it was that scar. EOS Still got a scar? EOS Oh yeah. EOS Yeah.
EOS Yeah. EOS So I went home. Mum took me to **anon** casualty and the
nurse s- said ‘Oh well that’s one way to lose a bit of fat isn’t it’
EOS Mm mm. EOS then she just got her scissors out and cut the excess
fat off and stitched it up. EOS Done and dusted. No local. Erm so that
was swinging. Erm- Yeah, the only other time in casualty, was erm
three years ago when I fell. Tripped over **anon**- EOS Oh aye you did
yeah. EOS **anon** the dog. EOS Oh. EOS I nearly lost me thumb and I
had to have- EOS Wow. EOS they couldn’t count the stitches. Well I
couldn’t. I just got fed up of trying to keep count. It was all round
here as far as there. EOS Oh yeah. EOS I was lucky that **anon** was
around and erm she wrapped a towel around it. Put it in the air. EOS
Mm. EOS And she drove me to hospital. And it was the first time she’d
driven that car. EOS ‘I’ve never driven it before’. But you’ll soon
learn. EOS How are we doing for time **anon**? EOS Erm twenty one
minutes. EOS Twenty- oh- EOS Gone. EOS ne- ne- EOS Shall we mo- shall
we move on? EOS nearly- nearly half term. Yes lets move on. EOS It’s
all about school and we’ve t- EOS Oh we done- EOS we’ve touched on
school. EOS touch- touched on school and erm- what have we got there
scholarsh-? EOS Right. EOS Holdays? EOS No where did you go to school
it says. EOS Where did you go to school. Oh here right. EOS That one.
EOS That one EOS Mm hmm. EOS Mm hmm. EOS Well I started at **anon**
school. EOS **anon** for short. Erm **anon** was a victorian
philanthropist who did things like building hospitals and schools. EOS
Oh ok. EOS And he built one in **anon** for the erm Church of England
children who lived in **anon**. There was already a Church of England
school there attached to the church- EOS Mm. EOS called **anon**-
**anon** but it was the other side of **anon**. EOS Oh ok. EOS And
very few lived on that side . EOS Most of the kids lived on the
**anon** side. And that’s probably one reason why he sited it where he
did in erm- in **anon**. EOS And I should think the bridge was
probably closed a lot more in those days as well than it is- it is
today- EOS Oh it’s very busy traffic yeah. EOS cause there was a lot
of traffic up and down- EOS Yeah. EOS the ship canal- EOS I bet it was
opened and closed every hour. EOS to the docks. EOS Mm. EOS So- EOS
Yeah. EOS There was a- always queues. EOS Yeah so- EOS I remember
queues when I first started driving every time I tried to cross
**anon** bridge. EOS Really? EOS Yeah. EOS Went there from five ‘til-
five years ‘til I was ten and then **anon** ‘til I was seventeen.
Seven years there. EOS Mm. I started at **anon** school in erm
**anon** or **anon** on the border I think which was just a- a
standard state school. Quite big classes in those days about- I think
I remember there were forty eight kids in the class. EOS Wow. EOS Erm
and there were- it was quite a big school because there were four
streams A, B, C, and D in the secondary school and we erm- EOS tended
t- to have just one teacher for all the lessons. EOS Yeah. EOS Erm and
I remember that starting in the second year at junior school and the-
the teacher came in- our form teacher and started writing on the board
in real writing. And none of us had learnt real writing before that
time- EOS Really? EOS so he realised he had to stop and teach us how
to do real writing- EOS before he could teach us anything else. EOS
Gosh. EOS So that’s- that’s the- the time we learnt it. And then in
the fourth year we all took our eleven plus t- to g- see if we could
go to grammar schools. EOS Mm. EOS And out of the school- out of the
year there were twelve people passed their eleven plus. EOS Wow. EOS
And I was one of them and I went to **anon** grammar school. EOS And
erm touching on one of these questions here. First day at- at school
at **anon** school. There was an initiation ceremony and between two
sets of steps and the school there was a like erm a- a- the- the bank
went down and then there was like a- a gully which was about three
foot wide and three foot deep. Erm and probably ten yards wide at the
very most and all the first year kids were thrown into that- EOS Oh no
EOS on the first day. EOS So there were probably fifty or sixty kids
crammed into this thing. EOS And if you ever- EOS if you tried to get
out you got thrown back in- EOS bodily. EOS Was it that- EOS And that
was called a monkey run. EOS Was that an all boys school- EOS No no no
no- EOS or was it mixed? EOS that was- it was mixed but it was
segregated playgrounds of course. EOS Yeah yeah we had that. EOS Yeah
it was mixed yeah. EOS Yeah. EOS Yeah. That erm- so that was- EOS Yeah
w- w- we had it like that. EOS the monkey run. Everybody in brand new
school uniforms- EOS Yeah. EOS got thrown in the dirt you know. The
first day. EOS Well I suppose ours was a cleansing our i- initiation
ceremony. You had your head put in the toilet and the toilet flushed.
EOS flushed EOS Mm. EOS I think a lot of headmasters in those days
tried to run their schools along public school lines. EOS Mm. EOS And
erm they must have knew- known these intiation ceremonies were going
on- EOS Yeah. EOS Oh yeah yeah. EOS and it were just ‘part of school
life old chap’. EOS Mm. EOS You know . EOS Yeah. EOS Erm cos I presume
you had to wear a school cap did you? EOS We had to wear a school cap
at all times on the way to school- EOS Yeah. EOS on the way home from
school, lunchtimes if you went out. Although you weren’t generally
allowed out of school unless you were going home for lunch. EOS Yeah
then you had to have written permission for that didn’t you. EOS Yeah
yeah. Well I- I once got erm into trouble for going out of school at
lunchtime. We used- we used- we used- EOS Well I did. It was when I
went out with you to the local café . EOS Yeah. EOS But this was when
I was at **anon**- EOS Had a quick pepsi and a woodbine . EOS We got-
we got caned. Two of us went out to buy a bottle of sauce to have with
our school dinner. EOS And we were on second sitting and we got
caught. Called before the headmaster and we got caned for erm going
out of school at lunchtime. EOS Oh no. EOS what kind of sauce was it?
EOS OK . EOS OK . EOS . EOS Or Daddies I’m not sure. One or the other.
EOS Yeah yeah . EOS Did you have to wear short trousers? EOS No we-
we- we weren’t obliged to wear short trousers. I wore long trousers in
the first year. EOS Oh. We were erm- EOS But no we could wear long
trousers. EOS third year before we could wear long trousers. EOS Mm.
EOS In fact- EOS When I joined **anon** school in the forth year there
were still some of the lads- EOS Yeah. EOS wearing short trousers- EOS
really? EOS in the forth year and that would’ve been what age fifteen,
sixteen? EOS Fifteen, sixteen. EOS Yeah. EOS Yeah well if the parents
still thought ‘those shorts still fit’- EOS Yeah . EOS I’m not buying
you long trousers just bec- EOS Waste of money. EOS Yeah waste of
money. EOS Mm. EOS Yes it was erm- the girls wore gym slips in the
winter and dresses in the summer. EOS Mm. EOS Which they don’t seem to
do now do they. EOS No. EOS No. EOS That’s right they- that was erm-
that was the same at **anon**. The girls had a uniform dress for the
summer- EOS Yeah yeah. EOS for the summer term. And the other two
terms they had to wear gym slips up to a certain age and then it was
skirts and blouses wasn’t it after a certain age and ties- EOS Oh yes
after y- about forth year. Yeah. EOS Yeah. White blouses. EOS Yeah
I’ve- I’ve got one of those old school photographs that’s about a yard
long- EOS or two yards long. And you can see all the different uniform
styles- EOS Yeah. EOS according to their ages on that. EOS Show that
to **anon** actually- EOS Yeah. EOS It’s quite interesting- EOS Mm.
EOS cause I- I think we both- EOS Did you have them taken in your
school? EOS Yeah. EOS Yeah the long ones. EOS Yeah. I think we’re both
on that one aren’t we? EOS I think we are yeah. EOS Is that the fifty
nine one- fifty eight one? EOS Fifty eight, fifty nine something like
that yeah. EOS Fifty eight yeah. Yeah. EOS Yeah. You’re on the back
row. EOS I was showing **anon** the other night. EOS Were you? . EOS
Yeah came across it. Yeah. EOS Mm. EOS Yes so we both remember our
first days at school then. EOS Yeah. EOS I- I- my initiation was easy
because I knew some of the lads in the second year and erm they did me
a favour and erm made sure I didn’t get too much of a ducking in the
toilets . EOS Yeah. EOS They wanted me to play football in their team
as well. EOS I spent my life- EOS I’ve- EOS school life being favoured
and because I had a certain amount of what most people thought was a
little bit of talent at football. EOS Mm. EOS And erm it was
misguided. This lad, cricket I was selected for the school cricket
team. And I was still in shorts and it was ridiculous going out to
play cricket in shorts. EOS So my mum had to take me to the co-op in
Eccles to buy me some white long trousers to play cricket. EOS And I
never got a bat or a bowl. I must’ve been a pretty good fielder . EOS
Mm. We used to erm- well we both played for the same under fifteens-
EOS Oh yeah yeah. EOS football team. **anon** was captain who we still
see occassionally. EOS Mm. EOS Mm. EOS And erm Barney **anon** was
vice captain and I’d just joined the school in the fourth year. And
played in one or two games classes and they picked me to play on the
under fifteens team. EOS Right. EOS So we’ve got a photograph of that
somewhere. EOS We have. Yeah. EOS Was the team good? EOS We played in-
and then we played e- for the school team didn’t we the following
year. EOS Yeah yeah. EOS And the erm- the full team. But we were both
quite keen on erm athletics and- and sports as well. EOS Yeah. EOS I
never played cricket very much but erm- EOS I used to join in all the
erm different sports day activities. EOS Yeah I was erm junior
athletics champion. Me and **anon**, **anon**- EOS That were before
erm- EOS Before you joined wasn’t it. EOS oh yeah cos you were a year-
no it’s probably the year I joined. But you were in- you were a year
younger than me. EOS Yeah. EOS So you were still in junior school
weren’t you. EOS Well I w- I was- EOS When- EOS in the second year.
EOS Oh is- it was when you were in second year was it. EOS Yeah yeah.
EOS Oh. EOS Yeah I think to get- EOS Cause I- EOS junior you had to be
under thirteen. EOS Did you yeah. EOS Yeah. EOS Cause I came second to
**anon** in the erm middle school. EOS Mm. EOS Erm Rex Ludorum they
used to call it. EOS Yeah. EOS King of the games. EOS Mm . EOS I came-
I came second and **anon** came third. Much to his annoyance. EOS .
EOS He’d been bragging the year before- EOS that he was gonna win it.
EOS Oh . EOS what was the leading girl called? If the leading man was
Rex or Victor- Victor Ludorum wasn’t it- the erm the men or the- EOS
Was it Victor a- EOS Victor vic- EOS at **anon**. It was Rex at
**anon**. EOS Was it? Erm it was Victor at **anon**. EOS Victor at
**anon**. Victor Ludorum. EOS So- EOS I don’t know what the girl got
called. EOS No I only did Latin for one year. EOS Don’t know. Didn’t-
I didn’t know any girls called Victor. EOS Victoria. EOS Victorlia-
Victoria Ludarum- Ludorum EOS Oh blimey. No no- EOS I don’t know
what’s the female- EOS that would- that would stay- EOS what’s the
female adjec- EOS that would stay no Ludorum. EOS W- Ludorum would be
the same. EOS Th- that would- that wouldn’t- that wouldn’t be sexed.
EOS You don’t change it like in French from petit to petite. EOS No
it’s- that- that Ludorum means ‘of the games’ doesn’t it? EOS Yeah.
EOS Mm. EOS So it could’ve been erm- EOS Yeah Victoria Ludorum . EOS
Vict- could’ve been Victris or some- Victrix. EOS Victrix or something
like that I suppose. EOS Yeah. EOS Anyway. EOS **anon**. EOS Hello.
EOS **anon** from Mercedes Benz. EOS Erm could I give him a ring back
if you get his number? Please EOS How long? EOS Oh ab- another half an
hour at least. EOS Mm. EOS They always say ‘are you happy with your
car?’ and I think yeah . EOS Yes, music music. We did a lot music
together didn’t we. School choir- EOS Well yeah we were in- EOS at
gammar school. EOS the school choir and then- EOS School orchestra.
EOS No I wasn’t in the school orchestra. EOS Weren’t you? EOS No. No I
never went in the sc- well what did you play in the school- EOS I
played guitar but it- it was the cello part. EOS Oh yeah it’s right.
EOS Erm. EOS That was after I’d left I think. EOS Ah. EOS It was when
I was in the sixth form. EOS The teacher just put a few- EOS Yeah. EOS
notes down that normally a cellist would play. EOS Yeah. EOS And I had
to just plonk them out . EOS No. EOS But we erm- we played at the
school concert didn’t we. EOS Played at school- school con- EOS Our
school dance. EOS school dance yeah. As a group. EOS Mm. EOS At the
hop. EOS Yeah. Yeah we- EOS Did we call them dances or did we- we
didn’t call them hops or anything? EOS No no no no. It was the school
dance. Yeah- EOS Erm. EOS at erm- we were the first group ever- EOS
Yeah. EOS to play at a school dance. EOS Oh. EOS That was in nineteen
fifty eight. Christmas dance. EOS Aye. And what did you- EOS I can
even remember what songs we played . EOS What you sang . Go- w- w-
what songs did you play? EOS It was erm- I sang erm Tom Dooley and erm
what was the other one. Flip side of it. What was it called? EOS Oh.
EOS Run a- rock my soul. EOS Rock my soul in the bosom of- EOS And you
sang- EOS I sang- EOS Cliff Richard’s- EOS Travelling Light EOS
Travelling Light. Mm. EOS Yeah. Erm- EOS And we’re still practising.
EOS still can’t play. But I think we did- did we just do that one
year? EOS Yeah yeah. EOS Did they ask us back? EOS Aw EOS Well I w-
well I left. EOS You left of course yeah. EOS I left that Christmas.
EOS That’s why EOS Yeah w- yeah I started work. Yeah. EOS Yeah w- we
went on to bigger- bigger and better venues after school. EOS Mm. EOS
I- Eccles town hall was our last appearance. **anon** was the first
appearance. EOS Yeah. And then he went off to university so we split
up then. EOS Oh right. EOS Yeah erm- EOS Mm. EOS and him and the lead
guitarist and the drummer they prefered to buy cars and motorbikes and
things instead of amplification. EOS Mm. EOS Erm- EOS But we didn’t-
no- not- no- EOS but we’d have- we wouldn’t have been able- w- we had
amplification of such. EOS As such- yeah. Of a sort. EOS We had
microphones sellotaped- EOS Yeah. EOS to the back of our guitars. EOS
leading into reel to reel tape recorders. EOS Wow. EOS So it was
really not loud at all EOS No EOS Mm. Oh it w- it was a treat to have
played at a venue where they had a microphone wasn’t it- EOS Oh aye
they had their own PA system. EOS because quite a few of them didn’t.
EOS Really? EOS So there were no mic- no amplification in some of
them. EOS No. EOS The school had a- a microphone didn’t they. EOS
Yeah. EOS And the erm- certainly Eccles town hall did. EOS Yeah and
Urmston baths. EOS Mm. Mm. EOS Urmston baths is- do you remember when
it was the erm circular one? EOS Is that when it was the Curzon? EOS
Opposite the Curzon. EOS Mm. I- my dad’s told me about it. EOS Yeah,
well they used to have dances there. EOS Oh ok. EOS They used to put
boards over the- the pool EOS and we played there once at Urmston and
Flixton junior football league’s presentation evening. EOS Oh ok. EOS
We sounded good with the echoes and- EOS Oh yeah yeah the echoes. EOS
the water and- EOS Mm. EOS the roof top. And it was a complete dome at
the top made out of glass and one year I think it was s- let me see
**anon** was about six or seven. It’d have been about nineteen eighty.
We had in- tremendous hale stones. Bigger than golf balls. EOS Wow.
EOS And they went right through the roof of Urmston baths. EOS Oh. EOS
And of course all the glass followed and all the tiles were damaged
and- EOS the council said it’s erm not economical to repair. So they
knocked it down. EOS Oh is that why? EOS Yeah- EOS Oh I didn’t know
that. EOS and it was a magnificent building. Th- EOS I’ve seen a
picture of- mm. EOS they had diving boards and erm nice café sauna.
Did you ever go? Erm- EOS I think I probably just went the odd time.
EOS Yeah. EOS But I used to **anon** when I was younger and we used to
go from school. We were taught to swim from school went to **anon**.
EOS Yeah we went to **anon**- EOS And erm- EOS from junior school. EOS
Yeah- EOS But at grammar school there was no swimming at all was
there. EOS that was- that was quite- and **anon**. I- I went to
**anon** a few times. I lot of my youth I spent in the scouts and the
sea scouts based at **anon** from being about thirteen year old- EOS
Mm. EOS up to it was probably about twenty six when I packed it in
altogether . EOS What we used to do spend a load of time goin away
camping and- EOS Oh yeah. EOS Yeah. But erm- EOS Well my grandad
wouldn’t allow me to go in the scouts. He didn’t believe in it. EOS
Really? EOS Oh. EOS And grandad’s word was gospel. EOS Mm. EOS He said
it’s like Hitler youth. EOS Mm. EOS He thought it was an army for
kids. EOS Mm. EOS But being **anon** he wanted to be very, very
English and tow the line. So Sundays we weren’t allowed to play out.
We were not forced but highly encouraged to go to church. EOS Yeah.
EOS So eventually I joined the church choir at about the age of seven
or eight. So that meant you soon got promotion cos there weren’t many
boys in the choir. I think there were four of us. You soon got
promotion to alter boy. EOS Yeah. EOS And then after confirmation you
had to go to the early morning mass. You took it in turns at going to
eight o’clock or nine o’clock. Then you were singing at eleven o’clock
mattins. You had to go to Sunday school at two o’clock . EOS And then
six thirty evensong. EOS Busy day . EOS So busy day. So you didn’t
have- really have time to play out on a Sunday. EOS Mm. EOS Yeah erm.
EOS Well everybody went to Sunday school in those days- EOS Yeah. EOS
but it was- it was only once for me. There was no choir cos it was a
little mission church down in **anon**. EOS Ah. Well the- the- the
choir was the undoing of the church in many ways. Because we got a
little bit beyond our station. We started singing very high brow stuff
like- EOS Mm mm. EOS Handel’s Messiah and- EOS Mm. EOS we had to have
erm choral communion every first Sunday in the month. EOS And the
congregation got a bit fed up with it. EOS Oh ok. EOS Cause it wasn’t
the sort of stuff where you could join in the chorus even . EOS No no
no. EOS Yeah . EOS Yeah. EOS And the c- congregation dwindled until
there were more people in the choir than in the congregation. EOS Oh.
EOS And the erm th- the vicar wasn’t very dynamic and his wife was
always a little bit tipsy. EOS She used to come in and stagger down
the aisle half way- EOS half way through the service. EOS Mm. EOS Her
hair all over the place . EOS So they knocked it down. And erm the
school still remains **anon** school. EOS Mm. EOS You know where I
mean? On one side on the- EOS No. EOS **anon**. EOS Oh yeah. EOS Yeah
the little school house there. EOS Yeah. EOS Erm that’s up for sale.
EOS Mm. EOS Well the church was the other side wasn’t it? EOS The
church has gone. EOS Yeah EOS Yeah the church was the other side of
the school. EOS Yeah. EOS That’s been flattened. EOS Mm. EOS My sister
got married there. Erm I think she was the last one ever to get
married there. Erm- EOS Who **anon**? EOS **anon**. EOS **anon**. EOS
Yeah. EOS Mm. EOS Yeah so I was an usher at that wedding and I was a
very poor student as well. EOS Oh . EOS And I couldn’t possibly have
worn me best suit cos it didn’t look very best at all. EOS So I went
to C and A and all I could afford was one that was five pounds fifteen
shillings. EOS It looked really smart and it lasted for the wedding.
And then about a week later I was out in the rain with it and it’s
like just falling apart. EOS It was. It was glued. It wasn’t stitched.
EOS Oh no. EOS So it was an expensive suit really considering I only
wore it twice- EOS before I had to throw it away. EOS Yeah. EOS erm- No left channel between 00.11 - 02.37 EOS No right channel between
03.00 - 03.53 and 04.08 - 04.35 EOS Problem with recording at 01.50.
Lack of continuity in conversation caused by omission due to recording
problem EOS What sorry? EOS Can you just count to three? Is that OK?
EOS One two three. EOS Yep. EOS Well Vivienne **anon**, EOS yeah EOS
we know where we went to school. No left channel EOS We went to the
same school. EOS We went to **anon** school. EOS it was. Now did you
ever get into trouble at school? Can you remember? EOS I did get into
trouble once, it was something to do with a bird. EOS Really? EOS And
someb- I think the boy that got me into trouble, somebody called
**anon** who lived on **anon**. EOS mmhmm EOS But I can’t remember
exactly how it all came about. EOS But I know **anon** wasn’t very
happy. EOS oh EOS Ah. Well I remember getting into trouble at that
school and I got the cane. EOS Oh I got the cane for it. EOS Did you?
EOS Yes, yes. EOS I was late, I’ve never been late in my life, and I
still hate being late for anything. EOS Well I’m-. EOS And I dawdled
on the way to school and suddenly I realised that the doors were
locked and I couldn’t get in. And I had to stand waiting while they
did the prayers. EOS How old were you then? EOS Erm I was in the
junior school, so possibly about eleven. Ten or eleven. And I got the-
this cane on my l- on my hand EOS who gave you that? **anon**? EOS
**anon** and it was- EOS He was a bit handy with his cane, wasn’t he?
EOS And do you know it really hurt, it- and I was so mortified that I
had to stand there in the hall and be caned. Section omitted due to
recording problem EOS Difficult years to be a child in. EOS Yes. EOS
Erm wondering from one day to the next whether the Germans would
arrive on the doorstep. EOS Cos we had shelters didn’t we? EOS We did
at school, which we had to go into. EOS Yes. EOS And practice for air-
raids. EOS yes, air raids, mm EOS I got thumped in one of those, I
remember, very, very hard in the dark. EOS Really? EOS Somebody
thumped me, we never knew who it was. But er-. EOS Well you wouldn’t
in the dark, no EOS No . EOS But I quite enjoyed **anon**. EOS I did
actually. It was a church school. EOS Yes. EOS It was always a very
good school. But as far as favourite teacher goes erm-. Left channel
resumes EOS Was there one called **anon**? EOS Yes. EOS I think she
was a favourite. EOS Yes possibly, she came from Irlam. EOS That’s
right. EOS Mm, she did. EOS **anon** with the strap in the corner. EOS
oh EOS She used to frighten me to death. But she was a very, very good
teacher. Was her name **anon**? EOS Right. EOS She used to play the
piano. EOS I don’t remember that name. EOS And if we didn’t sing- she
taught us ‘Jerusalem’ and if we didn’t sing it correctly, oh my word!
She was very strict. No right channel EOS right, right, I remember
**anon**. Now she was extremely strict. EOS **anon**. EOS Very strict
lady. She was a large lady and she was very, very strict, everyone was
frightened of her. EOS Well I think-. EOS As far as your first day at
school, that school- I actually, had been up in the lake district cos
I’d been evacuated erm to my aunt’s. And I do not remember really my
first day at school but I do remember at the infants. And I do
remember you and **anon** with your lovely dark black hair EOS that
was cut you know, with your fringes. I remember looking and thinking,
‘ooh what lovely hair!’ EOS I remember my first day. Cos I was five
when I went. Right channel resumes) EOS Right. EOS And I think the
teacher was called **anon** EOS oh EOS And I can picture the
classroom. EOS And our **anon** younger than me, she cried because she
wanted to come as well. So she started as well, shortly afterwards. No
right channel EOS Oh, oh right. EOS Erm- but then our **anon** had
appendicitis M did she EOS and she was rushed to hospital. EOS Right.
EOS And she missed quite a bit of schooling because of it. EOS ooh,
cos it was a big operation. EOS It was in those days, yes. Cos they
were frightened it might be peritonitis. EOS Yes. EOS Because
**anon**, my dad’s sister, she had died at fourteen EOS oh right EOS
with peritonitis. Erm and we always felt that she never quite caught
up, because she missed-. EOS So much. EOS The grounding, you know, the
basics. She’s alright now but that’s the way we felt. Right channel
resumes EOS mm, mm, summer holidays for me were again, back in the
Lake District. EOS yes, yeah EOS Erm I used to go on . EOS We used to
go on coach trips, Stratford upon Avon. EOS Yes, yes EOS Erm I didn’t
go to Scarborough. Erm, round Wales. EOS Right. EOS Me dad used to
take us to New Brighton on the bus. EOS Oh right. EOS But that’s as
far as it went in those days, cos people didn’t go on holiday, did
they really? EOS mm, no they didn’t no. Well you couldn’t because
there was no seaside to go to, because it was mined, all the beaches.
I do remember going to Blackpool once. EOS Yes I remember Blackpool.
EOS And it was all barbed wire and you weren’t allowed on the beach to
play. Erm I presume it was all mined and you know, waiting for an
invasion. EOS mm, mm EOS So beaches were just you know-. EOS A no go
area. EOS No go areas yes. Yes. EOS But having said that, I mean- our
school days- we never went short. We were never short of food or
anything like that. EOS No, it wasn’t very good at times. EOS We made
the most of what we had, erm EOS Yes and I still hate celery. EOS I’ve
never really taken to celery. EOS raw celery, I hate, but I love it in
stews. I do actually like it. EOS Do you? EOS Yes, in stews. EOS I eat
it because **anon** puts it in EOS yes EOS but I can’t say that it’s
one of me favourite things. EOS Yes, no. But I think- I think it was
very difficult for our parents to feed- I mean, there were th- three
of us, ‘til **anon** was born. EOS mm EOS had my sister, in nineteen
forty four, so- it was hard to- everything was so rationed. EOS It
was. EOS It was dreadful, you queued for everything. EOS Everything.
EOS you ate EOS And sweets, when you think nowadays the shops are
absolutely full of them. EOS Yes, yes. EOS I suppose we were lucky
that erm my aunties were still at home and they gave us their sweet
coupons. EOS Sweet coupons, yes. EOS And we used to go to **anon**.
EOS Oh yes, yes. EOS And er the main thing we had were Barley sugars.
EOS Oh gosh, really? EOS And occasionally a treat, with a crunchie.
EOS mm EOS But it was- that was all you could get in those days. EOS
mm EOS And then there was the powdered egg, EOS powdered milk EOS Oh
gosh that American powdered egg. EOS Canned coffee, ooh. EOS We w- we
were very lucky, we had erm- my grandfather wrote to a lady in America
who had been the fiancée of an uncle. EOS Who died in the first world
war. EOS mm, mm EOS And she went out and married someone else. And
went out to America and she sent us food parcels, all the way through
the war. EOS Oh that was nice, yeah. EOS She was very religious and
the church that she went to, they collected for the English people.
EOS Really? EOS And they used to send us some wonderful things over.
EOS yeah EOS Erm and it must’ve been quite expensive to get it over in
those days, EOS over in tho- yes EOS they wouldn’t be flown over. EOS
No, no. EOS It would’ve come by boat. EOS It’d take weeks! EOS The
only thing I hated was the wintergreen sweets that they sent. EOS Oh I
don’t remember those. I never had those. EOS Oh they were dreadful,
they were American, wintergreen, and the chocolate was bad as well.
EOS Urgh. EOS And I- I never liked those. EOS Well even now I don’t
think their chocolate is as nice as ours. EOS I don’t, no. EOS Because
**anon** and **anon** love Thorntons, EOS mm, mm EOS **anon** in
particular you know, the erm special toffee. And when me mum used to
visit erm **anon** in Chicago. EOS mm, mm EOS Take some decent
cadburies chocolates. EOS yes, yes, yes. EOS yes not as nice as hours.
EOS But they used to send- also, they collected clothes. EOS mm EOS
Clothes that were practically new. And I absolutely hated them.
Because my mother cut them down, EOS to fit me and they were American
style sleeves. EOS yes and you felt different. EOS And I was different
at school in them. And I absolutely hated them. EOS I don’t remember
that Maureen **anon**. I don’t remember. EOS And they were beautiful
things, I’m sure. EOS Yes, yes, mm EOS But they weren’t what I wanted.
But there were no clothes. EOS I know, well-. EOS Very difficult to
get. EOS Cos I know when people got married- I th- **anon** got
married at the end of the war, and it wasn’t a white outfit, it was
sort of a two piece, EOS mm, mm EOS with a great big hat. EOS Hats,
mm. EOS She always wore a hat didn’t she? EOS mm, Well I- I remember
my mother making my eldest sister- half sister, erm, wedding cake.
That would be probably nineteen- **anon** was born in forty four, so
this would be forty five, I think. EOS mm EOS And my mum- my mother
had got all the cake mixture, black market cake mixture of course. EOS
Yes, yes EOS Erm and she made this wedding cake and she took it out of
the oven and it fell into three pieces. EOS oh no EOS oh your poor
mum! EOS And she was absolutely horrified because she’d been a cook,
that was her- what she did as a young woman, EOS mm EOS and I think
she got the almond paste and stuck it together. EOS ‘gether . EOS
Where the cracks were. And iced over it and nobody knew any different.
EOS knew EOS So that- but that stuck in my mind and yes, that’s
amazing. EOS Yes, yes. EOS Erm but I used to- I did a lot of the
queuing fo- for food. EOS But we had to do, didn’t we? EOS Yes because
my mother had obviously had my sister in nineteen forty four EOS mm
EOS and I used to go and do all the-. EOS I did the er- most of the
errands. EOS Did you do it as well Vivienne **anon**? EOS Yes EOS mm
EOS **anon**. EOS Yes. EOS Cake shop EOS yes EOS and we used to go to
**anon** on the other side of the trinity. Erm-. EOS Mm, yes. EOS And
everything you know was sort of weighed and very precise. EOS Oh
absolutely. When you watch these- I love the history programmes EOS mm
EOS and I do watch them and you know, what went on in the war years.
And they’re absolutely perfect because you know, they are true
footage. EOS I know. EOS Of what it was like and it makes you think,
‘how did we ever survive?’ EOS Well we did, didn’t we? EOS mm EOS We
never went short. Never went short. EOS No, we had probably just about
enough but er-. EOS Yes and yet it’s not done us any harm, has it?
When you think about it. EOS Well we’re still here at seventy four and
touch our toes, Vivienne **anon**. EOS I don’t know that I can touch
my toes. EOS mm, I can. EOS Can you? EOS Yes. Oh gosh yes. EOS Mind
you I’ve never tried but I’m sure I can’t. EOS No EOS I’m sure I
can’t. Oh dear. EOS yeah, yeah, well we’ve got our own teeth. EOS Oh I
haven’t. EOS Oh sorry EOS Well I have half, the bottom. But I had mine
out at twenty six. EOS Oh did you? EOS Because I had terrible teeth.
EOS Oh right, right. EOS Look at her laughing! EOS I know EOS Terrible
teeth. EOS We’ve got our own hair colour! EOS Oh yeah and- well-. EOS
Well yes! EOS With a bit of help EOS The hairdresser’s very helpful
EOS Absolutely. Erm, yes. EOS Erm you know and what else? Well I’ve
got contact lenses. I fool everyone cos I’ve got contact lenses. EOS
Ooh no I just- I couldn’t put those in, I couldn’t mess with my eyes.
EOS Oh gosh yes, yeah EOS I couldn’t. EOS I’ve had them about- oh I
don’t know, twenty five years, probably now. EOS Really? EOS mm, since
I- I’m more-. EOS I need my glasses for reading but I just couldn’t-
EOS yes, mm EOS if I had to wear them all the time, I’d have to wear
them. Just couldn’t put contact lenses in. **anon** does. But I
couldn’t. EOS Erm, well my grandson who’s eleven, well twelve
tomorrow. He use- he has contact lenses, **anon**. EOS Does he? EOS
And what a difference it’s made to his life, and I taught him how to
do it. EOS Oh I’m sure. Really, yes. EOS Yes, and erm I did explain it
and I keep saying, you know, ‘you must wash your hands, all the time!’
EOS Ooh hands going near your eyes. EOS You don’t want to get infected
eyes. And I spent a long time- . EOS mm, Explaining it to him. EOS
Explaining how to do it, and do you know, he- he was brilliant. EOS mm
EOS And he’s so thrilled because he doesn’t have to wear glasses any
more. EOS yes. EOS mm EOS Yes, made a big difference to him at school.
EOS Because children generally don’t like wearing glasses. EOS They’re
quite cruel aren’t they? Some of them. EOS Oh they are yes. Yes that’s
right. EOS But yes. EOS I mean on the whole I think my school days
were happy days. EOS Yes I’m sure mine were really, yes. EOS But then
after **anon** we parted company didn’t we? EOS We did Vivienne
**anon** you went to the grammar school. EOS I went to **anon**
school. EOS And I went to a technical col- commercial college. EOS mm,
yes. And I suppose I did sports at the grammar school. EOS And w- and-
yes. EOS Erm hockey, rounders, athletics. EOS Yes. EOS School choir.
But I m- that’s a bit like that now. All gone by the board. EOS No EOS
I think they just had netball at **anon** when I went there. EOS Did
they? Well they had netball but I- EOS mm EOS I think being on the
short side, I wasn’t very good at netball. EOS No, no. EOS I was
better at hockey. EOS You are better when you’re tall, yes. EOS And
yet funny, my best friend, who was taller than me, you know, **anon**.
EOS Yes oh yes. EOS She was good at the high jump. I did the long
jump. She did netball, I did hockey. We just did opposite things. EOS
mm, mm, yes. EOS And I think that’s partly to do with her being so
much taller than me. EOS Taller, yes, yes. EOS mm EOS mm EOS mm. EOS
Now then. Funniest memories from when we were young. EOS And as far as
brothers and sisters of course, I had- my father sadly lost his first
wife with consumption as they called it in those days. Er in nineteen
twenty nine or stroke thirty. Erm my sister was three. And my brother
was a baby, about six months old. EOS mm, mm EOS And my father was
working, because of all the problems with like today, jobs that are
difficult. EOS Yes. EOS And of course the twenties and thir- well the
twenties was very difficult. And he went to live in Yorkshire. And-.
EOS yeah- whereabouts in Yorkshire? EOS Well I can’t just remember
now, though I’m trying very hard to. There was a very large erm- water
supply, a big erm-. EOS Reservoir. EOS Yes and it f- I think it fed
Leeds I think, up there, but it’s beautiful up there. And they had-.
EOS Is it the reservoir that you see when you’re on the M-sixty two?
Going towards-. EOS No, no it isn’t. EOS no EOS Erm and I have
photographs of my father up a telegraph pole, cos he was electrician.
EOS Oh was he? EOS Wiring it all up. And they had houses as well, and
that- my sister took me about four or five years ago and the
foundations of the houses which were stone were still there. Just the
foundations, EOS mm EOS you could see where they were. Erm and the
water authority, it hadn’t been open actually to the public and they’d
o- EOS mm EOS they’d o- they’d only just opened this particular spot.
EOS mm EOS Erm and so it was quite you know, interesting to go. EOS
Yes, yes. EOS And obviously my father’s been dead twenty years now.
Erm but-. EOS Do you know I thought it would’ve been more than that,
Maureen **anon**. EOS My father? EOS Mm. EOS Erm, well my mother-
father twen- EOS mother twenty and my father twenty two I think. EOS
Really? Mm. EOS And then what happened, she got this consumption
living there. Sadly and had to go to er a sanatorium. And he took his
two children back to Windermere where he came from. EOS mm EOS And his
mother looked after them. EOS Looked after them, brought them up. EOS
And that’s how he met my mother EOS mm EOS there. Erm, so it was
quite- really quite sad. EOS Sad yes yeah. EOS Yeah for him erm-. EOS
Well I can still picture your mother and father, you know- big weren’t
they? EOS Mm, yeah they were. Yes. EOS Tall, and I know when I used to
go shopping in Peel Green to the butchers and your mum would be
walking along, and I’d say, ‘how’s Maureen **anon**? Another little
girl!’ EOS another little girl, Yes. EOS Another little girl, one two
three four. EOS Yes, mhmm. EOS Oh yes. But then you see, what happened
with- with grandchildren. Six grandsons. EOS yeah EOS yes EOS And
three granddaughters. EOS mm, mm EOS And five boys, one after the
other. We didn’t have any girls at all. EOS Yes that’s right. Funny
that. EOS Mm. But erm-. EOS Just I do remember when we used to go to
church and you were in the choir, like **anon** was in the choir. EOS
mm, mm EOS And used to go to **anon**, Christmas Eve, carol singing.
EOS mm, really mm. EOS And your Mum, I remember one year in particular
your mum gave us all erm hot chocolate before we went. EOS ahh EOS Did
she really Vivienne **anon**? EOS yes one Christmas eve. EOS Ooh you
can remember things better than me. EOS Yeah, she gave us erm hot
chocolate before we all set off for church. EOS Oh really. EOS yeah.
EOS Gosh, mm EOS Happy days those, really. EOS Oh, yes, that’s- it is,
probably were, yes. EOS But you and **anon**-. EOS But you never got
much for Christmas, I certainly didn’t. There were just no toys at
all. EOS Well you couldn’t- I think. EOS in the forties EOS The one
thing I remember getting at Christmas was a very nice- and it was off
a friend of my mum and dad’s. EOS A pencil box with a- that’s erm
roller top. EOS Oh I know. Yeah. EOS But, you know, you come down
Christmas day, and your presents would be on the table. There’d be
mine, **anon** and **anon**. EOS Mm. EOS Because that was it, wasn’t
it, EOS mm EOS mm EOS and a bit of fruit? EOS mm EOS Whatever- you
know. EOS That’s right and a few nuts. You alw- I had a pillowcase,
always had a pillowcase and there was nuts in the bottom, a tangerine
and an apple. EOS mm, oh a tangerine. Yes. EOS And erm they were- I
don’t know that it was quite exciting to have those at the very
bottom. EOS Mm. EOS But I used to be so upset when there was nothing
left in it at all. EOS And wishing there were more things, but there
were no books Vivienne **anon** EOS no EOS and I never had a doll for-
I never played with dolls. EOS I- I wasn’t a doll person, I did have
one and I didn’t like it. EOS mm, well my mother-. EOS I did have a
nice doll’s pram. EOS Yes. EOS And bicycle that me granddad bought.
EOS vv EOS But it wasn’t at Christmas, it was sort of later on. EOS
Yes. EOS When you could afford it. EOS exactly. Yes, yes. EOS You know
cos they worked- worked hard. EOS Well I do remember a book that I was
bought. Two books- one was ‘The prisoner of Zenda’ and ‘Rupert of
Hensor.’ EOS Oh I don’t remember that but I remember the first one.
EOS And they were hideous books, they were far too old for me. EOS I
was just thinking that. EOS And I c- I don’t really think I ever read
them really. EOS No. EOS but there were no children’s books. But
**anon** from the post office, her parents could always find Rupert
books. EOS Could they? EOS Mm, she always had the annuals for Rupert.
And I was lucky, because she used to lend them to me. EOS Yes, yes EOS
You know, and so I could read them. But I never had any books. And my
mother, desperate to get me a doll she went to the doll’s hospital in
Manchester. EOS Oh I remember the doll’s hospital. EOS And you
remember that Vivienne **anon**. EOS Mm. EOS Bought two heads and
sewed them on this- these bodies she’d made. EOS mm EOS And I had- I
always had a black doll. EOS mm EOS I absolutely loved black dolls,
EOS mm EOS mm EOS more than white dolls. Cos I just had this
attraction f- for black dolls. And she got me a black and a white one.
And I went to see **anon** my friend at the time. EOS She’s a mutual
friend, **anon**. EOS oh, okay EOS Yeah. EOS We went to school with
her, didn’t we? EOS Yes, yeah. And **anon** dropped one of my dolls
EOS and the head smashed into pieces. EOS no EOS And I was so
horrified I lifted my arms up and dropped mine. So I had no dolls. EOS
none at all EOS So both the heads had gone. EOS Oh what a shame and
your mum had gone to all that trouble. EOS mm, yes, yes. Yeah, she w-
she wasn’t- wasn’t particularly good at sewing. But erm, she went to
quite a bit of trouble to try and make up for what wasn’t there. EOS
Something- What we couldn’t have. EOS What we didn’t have, exactly.
EOS Yes. EOS But my sister arriving in forty four. Everything went to
her. EOS Er the- I- I could not remember what a banana looked like. I
hadn’t ever had one, you see, EOS mm EOS that I could remember. EOS I
can’t remember when I was little, no. Because I was three in thirty
nine. So when the bananas came, erm-. EOS Now I don’t know how many
there were, whether there was only one, but my father- it had to be
**anon** that had the banana. EOS mm EOS I remember looking at this
and thinking, ‘I wonder what it really does taste like?’ EOS really
does taste like. EOS And I didn’t find out, and I wonder why they did
that in those days. EOS They could’ve given you half each. EOS
Could’ve given us half each, EOS mm EOS yes EOS yes they could
actually. Erm so everything went to **anon**. Erm but it never
affected me in any way. EOS Never bothered you, no I mean-. EOS I was
never jealous. EOS I was the first grandchild, spoilt. And then there
was **anon** and then **anon** was the first grandson. And he was
spoilt. EOS mm, mm, mm EOS But because I suppose my nanna and
granddad- granddad in particular with **anon** I was- me nanna was for
me. EOS Me mum and dad tried to make it up to **anon**. They gave her
more. EOS mm, yes, yeah. EOS Like I went to the grammar school,
**anon** went to the grammar school, so erm- made sure that **anon**
went to **anon**. EOS Oh right, yes EOS And got a city and guilds in
erm-. EOS yes, catering, wasn’t it? EOS catering, yes. EOS yes, yeah
EOS And then of course, **anon** and **anon** EOS yes EOS **anon**
came along later on. EOS Yes, a lot later. EOS yes EOS But my
grandparents lived in **anon**, as you know, and my grandmother would
give my half brother half a crow, which was quite a bit of money. EOS
Ooh a lot of money in those days. EOS And I was given sixpence. EOS I
never had what he had. Because he was the son, EOS son, mm EOS you
know, the grandson. And apparently my father used to get so upset
about it and so annoyed, he’d take me home and give me half a crown.
EOS mm, crown as well. EOS ahh, EOS Yes. Just to make it up. EOS mm,
cos we used to joke, you know me mum made a lot of our clothes for
**anon** and I. EOS Yes, yeah EOS And of course we’d say- course our
**anon**’s came from Kendal Mills EOS Yes, yeah. They were like that
with sons. EOS But erm- yes, yes. EOS For some reason and we’ve got
far more equality today. EOS mm EOS And you don’t treat your children
any different at whatever age. EOS No, me mum and dad didn’t really,
erm. EOS No. EOS Erm, because er- we’ve got a photograph of the three
of us and a friend of **anon** had knitted these fair-isle cardigans
in two ply. EOS mm, gosh. EOS **anon** and I had cardigans, **anon**
had erm- I think it was a v-neck sweater. EOS mm, mm EOS And me mum
made sure that the three of us had the same. EOS Yes. Yes, quality,
mm, yeah. EOS Yes, yeah. Tried to treat us all the same. EOS mm EOS
But erm- now then, what did I help out in the house a lot? Well I had
to do. EOS yes I’m sure I did, I’m sure we had to really. EOS Yes. EOS
Didn’t we? EOS mm EOS Erm washing up was always a pain, cos nobody
wanted to dry. EOS no EOS It’s strange nobody likes drying isn’t it?
EOS No, no, nobody wanted to dry. So we used to argue, the three of
us, cos **anon** was too young. EOS mm EOS Erm and they used to- did
they have no washing up liquid Vivienne **anon**? EOS Oh I don’t
remember washing up-. EOS It was Persil. EOS Persil, no washing up
liq- EOS We used to put washing powder in EOS really EOS and wash the
pots in washing powder. EOS I don’t remember washing up liquid. EOS
No. EOS At all. EOS Oh they didn’t have it, no, no, and my mother-.
EOS But when you think no washing up liquid, no washing machine, or
things like that. EOS No- no they boiled everything, didn’t they, in a
boiler, EOS mm EOS but I do remember my mother grating fairy soap,
white blocks- sorry green blocks of fairy soap. EOS Green blocks of
fairy soap. EOS And she would grate it into the dolly tub. EOS Yes.
EOS Er with boiling water so it melted, EOS yeah EOS an- and became-
EOS so it would clean the clothes properly. EOS mm, and then they- EOS
And they always washed on a Monday. EOS And ironed on a tuesday. EOS
Yes, yes. If they got it dry. EOS Yes, routine, routine EOS mm, was
routine. And we had a cellar, where my mother had clothes lines. EOS
We had cellars. EOS And she used to hang her clothes EOS mm EOS in the
cellar to dry. And we did have a very old coke burner down there for
when the sirens went and there was bombing. EOS Oh the sirens yes. EOS
yeah and- and erm, my grandfather had gone to the railways and he was
a joiner, when he was younger and lived in the Lake District. But he
came down to live with us and erm he went and got all these- erm,
this- these pieces of wood from the railway that- sleepers. EOS mm EOS
And he propped the whole of the ceiling of the cellar up in case we
had an air-raid or a bomb- EOS yes we had our own sort of shelter at
four-two-seven. EOS yes EOS At six-six-three you used to go down in
the cellar. EOS yes EOS But erm I remember my nan, my nanna and
**anon** heard the sirens. Went down into the cellar. **anon** came
home from work to find them in the cellar. ‘What you doing in the
cellar?’ ‘Well you know, the sirens went.’ They’d gone down for the
all-clear, hadn’t they? EOS oh EOS and they’d been there all morning.
EOS marvellous, oh. EOS Oh dear. EOS oh EOS Little things like that
stick in your mind, don’t they? EOS Oh where were your- where are you
parents from, well mine are from the Lake District. Both living in
Windemere. Er back-to-back and never knew each other. EOS real- EOS
Because my father was four years older than my mother. But they didn’t
find out until of course they met up, after his first wife died. EOS
mm EOS And my- my mother was engaged to erm a- a man who went out to
Canada and lost all his money on the crash- EOS Wall Street crash. EOS
crash. EOS And said, ‘well I’ve got to start again, I’ll send for
you,’ EOS mm EOS and she said, ‘don’t bother I’m not waiting.’ EOS And
meanwhile her best friend who was my father’s cousin, girl. Erm just
asked her if she’d like to co- go out, as a foursome because EOS mm
EOS my father had lost his wife EOS yeah EOS and she wanted to cheer
him up and that’s how I become- EOS mm EOS th- that’s how I ended up
sitting here talking today. EOS . EOS yes EOS If they’d never got
together I wouldn’t be here. EOS Well it’s true isn’t it? EOS yes. EOS
You know. EOS Yes oh life is strange isn’t it? Mm EOS It is, because
**anon** always wanted- he did his national service and always wanted
to stay in the army. EOS Oh did he? EOS Yes he loved it. Absolutely
loved it. EOS Oh so why didn’t he? EOS Because his mother and father
said, ‘if you stay in the army, that’s it you’ve no mother and
father.’ EOS You’re joking! EOS No erm-. EOS What was the reason? EOS
Because- well they thought it was erm a reflection on them that he
wanted to be away from home. EOS Oh. EOS But they never really got on,
he got on better with his father than his mother, EOS mm EOS but then
his father would say, ‘well if you’d stayed in the forces, you would
never have met Vivienne **anon**.’ EOS mm EOS mm EOS And he said,
‘well I’m sure we would have done,’ EOS mm EOS ‘because we were meant
to be together.’ EOS mm EOS So it’s funny how things work out, isn’t
it? EOS Yes. Yes, was he an only one? EOS Oh yes. EOS Oh EOS oh yes.
EOS With a terrible mother. EOS really? EOS Really? EOS Oh she was- .
EOS Possessive? Controlling? EOS Yes and yet she was in a way
possessive, and yet she hadn’t got a lot of time for him. So I could
never weigh it all up. Nothing ever made sense. EOS mm EOS Erm and his
father was away a lot on business. You know and if he did anything
wrong, ‘wait ‘til your father comes home!’ EOS mm EOS And one
incident, he’d been smoking when he was about ten or eleven, with a
friend. Friend had a- parents had a pub and they went on the flat roof
and he was so ill. And of course his mother, ‘wait ‘til your father
comes home!’ and then when his father came home told him, ‘aren’t you
going to give him a good hiding?’ So he said, ‘he’s learnt his
lesson.’ EOS Mm. EOS mm EOS yeah EOS And he never really smoked
cigarettes again. Occasionally, EOS mmhmm EOS if **anon** lit up he’d
say, ‘ooh I just fancy one,’ and he’d have one. EOS mm EOS But he
never went out and bought a packet of cigarettes. EOS Mm, my parents
didn’t smoke. But my brother did, me half-brother did. And **anon** my
half sister. EOS mm, no me dad smoked but me mum couldn’t stand it.
EOS No, no. EOS Couldn’t stand it. I’ve never smoked. EOS No, no I
haven’t. EOS **anon** has smoked but gave it up some years ago. EOS
mmhmm EOS Erm **anon** has the odd one, more a social- EOS mm EOS
doesn’t sit at home smoking. EOS mm EOS **anon** doesn’t smoke,
**anon** doesn’t smoke. EOS No. EOS Erm-. EOS mm, and actually my
parents were tee-total. EOS Were they? EOS Until my father got to
eighty and then he used to have his brandy in a morning, to keep his
heart going he used to say. EOS Well they used to say a drop of
whiskey at night is good for you. EOS Well yes, they did. Yes, yes,
but erm EOS That’s my excuse if I have one. EOS It’s good for me! EOS
Oh but erm, EOS cos you read all these things in the paper, EOS yes,
yes EOS you know and glass of red wine. EOS Well it’s beer today,
apparently. EOS I know that was in the paper the other day. EOS
Giving- yeah keeping your heart going. EOS Don’t like beer. EOS I
think I’ll do without, mm, mm EOS Don’t like beer at all. No. EOS What
are local people like? The people where I live- well they’re all very
nice really, it’s quite quiet, but it’s a- it’s such a good area, I
mean the house is up for sale, I can’t imagine why nobody buys it. EOS
mm EOS Because it’s such a super spot to be, EOS mm EOS you’ve got the
railway, you’ve got-. EOS mm, everything’s to hand isn’t it, yes EOS
Everything’s at hand, you’ve got sports centres, you’ve got swimming
pools, golf courses. EOS mm EOS You can get into Manchester so
quickly, and you can get onto the M- sixty- sixty two, sixty-one,
fifty six, in ten minutes. EOS mm, I think you’re better placed than I
am, in Irlam, EOS yes EOS because the buses are about- they’re
supposed to be every ten minutes but they’re not EOS mm EOS and
there’s only really one into Manchester. EOS mm EOS And there’s
another one that goes through Manchester into the Trafford centre, or
the Trafford centre into Manchester. And they’re about the only two.
EOS Yes and the- the thing about the Trafford centre is- it- I didn’t
like it when it was first built, EOS mm EOS I thought it would kill
off all the sho- local shops, which it did. EOS mm EOS But I do enjoy
going and I go at least twice a week. EOS mm EOS And I don’t
particularly buy erm, but I c- EOS if I want to, everything’s there.
EOS You can, yeah, yeah EOS I’ll just go because it’s very nice inside
and you can have a nice coffee and a cake on a morning. EOS In John
Lewis, yes, mm EOS Yes. And er- and I do quite enjoy going and it’s
just so quick to get there and to park and-. EOS It is, it’s no
problem. EOS It’s just no problem, so that’s a great advantage to this
area to me. EOS mm EOS yes EOS I’ve never been into Manchester for
years and I don’t think I ever will really. I’ve got- There’s nothing
there for me. EOS Well I go into Manchester erm, normally every
Thursday to meet two friends I used to work with many years ago at
ICI. EOS Oh right. Yes, yes EOS And then I meet another friend every
other week on a Wednesday, EOS mm, right EOS that I used to work with
at ICI. EOS mmhmm EOS So but normally I park in Marks and Spencers and
then on a Thursday have lunch in Marks, just a sandwich. One friend
moans the whole of the time EOS mm, mm EOS about the quality and the
standard and the noise, cos it is noisy in Marks and Spencers. EOS mm
EOS Oh right. EOS Now if that particular friend doesn’t come, er
**anon** and I will go to **anon**, EOS mm EOS which is erm an
Austrian patisserie. EOS ooh EOS Ooh you should see the cakes! EOS Mm,
very nice. EOS Oh lovely. Erm then when I go with **anon** we go to
the **anon**. Where you can have a three course lunch for six pounds
fifty. EOS ahh EOS That’s good. EOS Yeah. EOS mm EOS And I might walk
through the Arndale centre EOS mm EOS erm, couple of times recently I
have had a bit of a walk round the Arndale but I’ve been looking for
specific shops. EOS mm EOS And there everything seems that little bit
bigger EOS mm EOS than in the Trafford centre. EOS Trafford centre,
yes. EOS And on Sunday, **anon** and I and **anon** we’d taken
**anon** back to w- erm the station, erm we went into EOS the Arndale
and I think- I can’t remember what we were looking for. But I was
surprised, it was a Sunday and I was able to park in Marks and
Spencers car park. EOS Oh right. EOS It’s not cheap, parking in- EOS
mm EOS and it does add- EOS mm EOS it adds to me lunch when I go. I
used to go on the bus. EOS mm, yes. EOS But you get on the bus and
then there’s these girls that get on with their buggies, EOS mm, mm
EOS mm EOS dripping in cheap jewellery, EOS not a ring in sight, and
oh. If smoking was allowed they’d be smoking. EOS mm. EOS mm EOS I’m
not a snob EOS no EOS but you know, you do have certain standards
don’t you? EOS I think it’s the way we were brought up Maureen
**anon**, respect. EOS Probably. EOS In those days. EOS Yeah. Yes
probably. EOS You respected your teachers and- EOS mm EOS and we went
to church and Sunday school, didn’t we? EOS Yes we did. We certainly
did. EOS And then the pictures after church on a Sunday night
sometimes, the Palladium. EOS Terribly naughty. EOS When you think
about it. EOS mm, yes we used to go on to the pictures after we’d been
to church. EOS mm. And we’d done our duty, hadn’t we? EOS we’d been to
church. EOS Well, definitely! Yes those were the days. EOS Happy days.
EOS But I think, I remember it being more difficult for food, clothes
and everything else after nineteen forty five. Because that’s when it
was really difficult, when they put bread on rationing. That was
awful. EOS Yes because rationing went on for quite some time, didn’t
it? EOS It went to about fifty two I think. EOS Yes it went on for
some time. EOS But it went worse- I don’t think we probably got the
help from America that we’d had during the war. EOS Or thought we were
going to get. EOS Yes. EOS That’s right. EOS yeah I think so, mm. EOS
Because there was the air base in Warrington wasn’t there? Burtonwood
EOS Yes. The Americans, mm. EOS erm and I know a friend of my auntie’s
went out with one of the airmen EOS mm EOS and er- he used to take to
erm **anon**, girlfriend, loads of sweets and things. EOS Yeah. EOS mm
EOS So you know we had sweets. EOS Yes. EOS in that way. EOS Yes. EOS
But it was a long time before things were really back to normal. EOS
Anything like- well, above- above the counter. EOS That’s right EOS
And on show, everything was under the counter. EOS yeah. EOS Nothing
was on show. No food was on show. EOS And I know we had a chicken
nearly ever week and it was a friend of my granddad’s and me dad’s,
used to get these live chickens EOS mm EOS and they were in Pendleton,
and I had to go on the bus and bring back this chicken. EOS Dead
chicken, was it plucked? EOS Alive Maureen **anon**! EOS Oh you
didn’t! EOS I did. EOS And I’d no choice, I had to do it. EOS How did
you carry it? EOS It used to be in a bag, and EOS I’d be sitting on
the bus, terrified in case it made a noise. EOS Our **anon** would say
that he did it, but if he did it, I don’t remember. It was me, because
I was the eldest. EOS He might have come on the odd occasion to keep
me company. EOS mm EOS But in the main, it was me. So we always had-.
EOS Can I ask you, EOS chicken EOS did you eat any of it when you got
home? EOS Oh once me mum had killed it and cleaned it and everything.
EOS And prepared it, oh EOS And it- mainly boiling . EOS yes, yes EOS
And she used to make beautiful chicken soup. EOS yes EOS And erm our
**anon** always had the best of the chicken. And me mum would hide it
under his rice, so that **anon** and I couldn’t see it. EOS Really? Oh
that’s not right at all is it? EOS But that’s how it was, he got the
best. EOS It was, yes, he did. EOS And er- I mean we laugh about it,
EOS mm EOS and the thing is, although we know that he was in a way
favoured, it never, has never- EOS Any animosity between you. EOS No.
EOS mm EOS mm EOS There’s never been any jealousy among us. EOS no.
EOS Between the five of us, at all really. EOS mm, mm, my mother lived
on a farm, erm, and my grandfather was a bailiff. EOS Oh yes. EOS
Which was- it- you know he- he rented and he worked for the farmer and
it was in Warrington, cos he came down all the way from the Lake
District, how they got down I’ve no idea. EOS No, no motorways. EOS
But they always- no and they were on this farm called **anon**, which
is still there in- in Warrington, Daresbury actually. EOS Yeah mm. EOS
And my mother went to school at Daresbury village. And erm she said
that my father- my grandfather always had- if they had an egg, they
only got the top off the egg, EOS and gra- and her father got the
whole egg. EOS Cos he was the working- he was working. EOS Yes, yes.
EOS and he was providing. EOS mm, mm EOS And she said there was ce-
EOS there were- there were lots of vegetables, and she said, ‘he never
took anything that wasn’t his’. EOS no EOS And she said, ‘we could’ve
lived really well if he’d just- taken a few of these veggies and
brought them home.’ EOS Yeah, vegetables, mm EOS But he never did.
Never took anything that wasn’t theirs they were so honest. EOS Wasn’t
theirs. EOS Mm, then they went back of course, went back to erm-. EOS
The Lake District. EOS Yes went back to Ulverston, mm EOS mm, I was
looking at the Lake District on the telly the other night, erm- did
you watch it? EOS Yes, yes I did actually, I’d seen it before. EOS
Yes, I’ve seen it before but I watched it again. EOS Yes, yes EOS Erm
and I thought, ‘oh we did have some nice little breaks up in the lake
district.’ EOS Yes. My cousin that still lives there, erm her grandson
is erm- well his girlfriend, who lives on **anon**, which is the
island that nobody’s- it’s private. EOS mmhmm, yes, in the middle bit
EOS Erm-. EOS I’ve often wondered if anybody lived there. EOS yes,
it’s a beautiful house EOS Is it, mm, mm EOS It’s the **anon** that
have got that. The people who had the insurance company, **anon**
insurance company. EOS mm, oh EOS And they bought the island and they
live there. And this is their daughter. And she swam the English
channel about two weeks ago. EOS Did she? EOS For charity, yes. EOS
She’s a st- I think she’s a student now, I- I th- - I’m not sure
whether- she’s got two grandsons, and I’m not sure whether this
particular grandson is the one that’s living locally in Manchester,
EOS oh EOS come down from the Lake District erm cos there are two of
them and I do get them confused and they’re both at university, or one
has finished. EOS mm, mm, yes, yeah. EOS But this girlfriend, yeah she
swam the English channel. Yes. EOS swam the channel. EOS Cos she- she
let me know the other week about it, yeah. EOS mm, what about hat
older lady swimming it? And kept going off course? EOS I know EOS Oh
did she, I’ve no- I didn’t see that. EOS Yeah and I’ve forgot- I’ve
forgotten how long it took her, EOS ooh EOS but she did it. But it
took her hours and hours. EOS The English Channel? EOS Hours and hours
and hours. EOS You’ve got the jellyfish problem with the English
Channel. EOS I know. EOS haven’t you, really? Mm, EOS yeah EOS Oh
gosh. EOS No it was nice, watching the Lake District, yes EOS Yes very
beautiful if it’s not raining. EOS Ooh, the very first time we went on
the Friday afternoon, it was raining so hard. EOS mm EOS ‘Oh what have
we done, why have we come?’ But then Saturday and Sunday it was
glorious. EOS mm, mm, beautiful, mm EOS Absolutely. EOS Mm, they’ve
had very bad weather this last winter. EOS Mm with the snow and
everything. EOS Yes a lot of- yes, yeah and rain. EOS I mean that’s
why I can’t understand the reservoirs being so low. EOS No but EOS
When we’ve had so much snow. EOS My cousin, when she was telling me
about these- this er grandson’s girlfriend. Erm she said, ‘oh you
wouldn’t believe how low they are.’ She said, ‘we’ve been out and
we’ve been looking and they’re extremely low.’ mm EOS I know when we
used to drive over to Harrogate erm on the M-sixty- two, we always
looked at one reservoir, Time EOS mm EOS ‘oh it’s a bit low this y-
this week.’ EOS mm EOS Do you know the one I mean? EOS Yeah, yeah I go
that way. EOS Yes and er we’d be sort of, ‘oh there’s going to be a
water shortage.’ EOS mm EOS mm EOS mm EOS our **anon** had to defy the
hosepipe ban before. EOS He what, sorry? EOS Had to defy the hosepipe
ban. Because our **anon** got all dog’s poo on his shoes. EOS oh, oh
EOS And so he had to swill them down. EOS Did he? I hope this is not
being used in evidence against him EOS for a thousand pounds. EOS I
never thought about that EOS Oh dear. EOS Confessions. EOS
Confessions, yes. EOS mm, well I mean, I use my hosepipe to fill my
watering can and my gra- my son-in-law said, ‘you can’t do that it’s
illegal.’ I said, ‘rubbish. It can’t be illegal.’ But I’ll tell you
one thing. This hosepipe ban is so ridiculous cos you waste more
money- sorry more water. EOS More water. EOS In a watering can. EOS
yeah EOS Well I think so, Maureen **anon** too. EOS Because you’re
being- it’s pouring out and EOS yes EOS and if it was coming out as a
spray EOS a spray EOS and a shower, it would go into the flowers and
everything quicker. EOS Yes, yeah EOS But it’s just going over the
tops and- and going on the- one the road. On the pavements. EOS I
think it’s worse. EOS mm EOS I think it’s silly. EOS Mm, I do. Yes,
but still. EOS I can understand them saying the hosepipe ban for
washing cars at home. EOS Well at home but what about these- EOS but
you can still- EOS can you still take them to the-? EOS Oh yes you can
still take them to these places. EOS yeah EOS Places to have them
cleaned. Oh right, right. I didn’t realise that. EOS I mean the
gardeners that I have, **anon** said that he’d looked it up on the erm
internet EOS mmhmm EOS and it was so complicated, what you could, what
you couldn’t do, EOS oh yes, yes, EOS that in the end, he gave up. EOS
mm. EOS United utilities saying one thing, somebody else saying
something else, and he thought, ‘just don’t get it.’ EOS mmhmm, mm,
no. Well my- I’ve got one hanging basket, beautiful EOS mm EOS because
it’s rained on it and the other one is slightly under the porch EOS mm
EOS at the front door and it’s dead. EOS ahh EOS And **anon** never
bothered watering it. So I’ve had to get it down and just let the tap
run on it, EOS mm EOS so that’s wasted a lot of water. EOS Yeah, yeah,
yeah. EOS Today, whether it will revive, I don’t think it will. EOS
mm, c- It will, it will cos they said to me on Tuesday, I said, ‘I
know what you’re going to say,’ I said, ‘well you see it has rained so
I thought to myself ‘I don’t need to water them,’ EOS mm EOS ooh EOS
But you still need to water them, so-. EOS Oh gosh you do because it
doesn’t get through. EOS no EOS It only stays on the top. EOS yes EOS
Hmm, how are we doing? No right channel between 4.27 and 5.05 EOS count to five EOS yep,
one, two, three, four, five EOS yep EOS one, two, three, four, five
EOS yep, that’s fine EOS Okay. EOS Off you go EOS So Bruce **anon**
where are- where are your parents from? EOS Right. That’s an
interesting one. EOS mm, it is! EOS My mum was born **anon**. My dad
was born in **anon**, which is Manchester. But his parents- er his
father was from **anon**, and his mother was from **anon**. EOS Mm
that’s interesting isn’t it? EOS Yeah, so my father was sent back to
**anon** when he was a boy. And he could speak **anon** fluently. Er,
**anon**. EOS wow EOS Wow. EOS yeah and then what about- EOS and then-
EOS how did he meet your mum then? EOS It was when he went back to
**anon**. EOS To learn English? EOS No to learn **anon**. EOS To
learn- sorry to learn **anon**. EOS Yes. EOS So they came back, I
think me mum was nineteen. EOS aww EOS And it was before the days of
air travel. So they came on a boat. EOS aww EOS To Liverpool, is that
right? Am I right that they were-? EOS That’s where they would have
landed, no, but the family had moved to Manchester by then. It was me
Granddad who-. EOS But didn’t they start off in Liverpool? EOS Yeah
that was my Granddad, but then he came to Manchester. EOS you’re
Granddad, right, yeah. EOS Cos even in those days it was a little bit
rough, EOS I think, in- in Liverpool . EOS Really? EOS Yeah so he came
to Manchester, and was first in **anon**, before they moved to
**anon**. EOS Right, hmm. EOS And that sort of diagonal side to
Manchester really. EOS Gosh EOS Yeah, so what about your parents? EOS
Well mine are very boring compared to that. EOS aww, EOS They’re
actually erm, both from **anon**, which is now classed as Salford. And
erm interestingly, erm, certainly my mother erm, grew up close to your
brothers and sisters. EOS Yeah. EOS In **anon**. EOS mm EOS Just- ju-
. EOS Just down the road actually. EOS From- in a place called
**anon**. EOS Well, **anon**. EOS Well **anon** and then **anon**.
Well actually my father actually was probably more from **anon**. EOS
Yes. EOS Wasn’t he, really? So me mum and dad actually lived fairly
close to each other. But went to different schools, there’s seven
years between them, so erm- they didn’t really meet up until er- I
think me mum was in her early twenties then. Although they only-
didn’t really live that far down the road from each other. EOS yeah
EOS Erm but getting back to my mum, erm. EOS What it was with my
husband’s family, er they owned erm, **anon**, in- EOS It wasn’t a
laundrette, a laundry EOS Well a laundry, sorry EOS Get the words
right. In **anon** and- EOS It was laundrettes what put them out of
business EOS Yeah it was the laundrettes that put the- yeah so the
laundry- EOS oh, no EOS so all- everything was hand washed in this-
EOS ooh EOS and erm- and that’s- and they were very erm- had a good
reputation. And so obviously my mum knew about the laundry, don’t know
whether she used it or not. EOS Well she went to the same school as my
elder brothers and-. EOS Yeah. EOS Well, me older brother and sisters.
EOS Yeah EOS So they all knew each other. EOS yeah, they were quite-
quite a well-known family, **anon**. Because I think- are we the only
**anon** family there? At the time? EOS Erm p- probably the first. EOS
Yeah. EOS There was another family further into **anon**. EOS Yeah.
EOS but that was bit later. EOS But sort of in that vicinity, they
were probably the only ones. EOS Yeah. EOS So- and with you having
that laundry, erm-. EOS And yeah, getting back to my mum, she went to
school with- was she the year below **anon**? Or above **anon**? I
think she was a year above **anon**. EOS A little bit older than
**anon**. EOS She was in the year above **anon** and erm-. EOS And I
think your Auntie **anon** was a little bit younger than **anon**. EOS
mm EOS Yeah. So me mum’s sister was at school with- she went to
**anon**- no she didn’t did she? EOS Well they all went to the same
junior school. No right channel EOS They went to the pri- the same-
yeah, she went- yeah but me nan sent her to **anon**, so she went
there EOS Yeah and **anon** did. EOS So there’s quite a lot of er
family links. EOS Yeah. EOS And when I met Bruce **anon**, my husband,
EOS erm when I told my mum I was going out with this lad and said,
‘he’s part **anon**’ and he- he knows you from **anon**, my mum said,
‘oh I wonder if it’s the **anon**- one of the **anon**? Oh crikey!
Well I hope so cos they’re such a lovely family.’ EOS aww EOS And I
said, ‘oh right okay, well, I’ll ask him what his surname is,’ cos I
think I’d only been on one date with him, EOS so I didn’t know what
his surname was. And as it turns out it was **anon**. And so then erm-
he was introduced. EOS Everything was okay then. EOS yeah EOS
Everything was fine, and then when Bruce’s **anon** mum found out my-
the origins of my family, EOS yeah EOS and I was one of **anon** erm
granddaughters. EOS Lovely family. EOS ooh, lovely family, so
everybody was happy. EOS oh, that’s good EOS yeah EOS aww. Right
channel resumes EOS Right, so erm have you lived any- . EOS No, this
is a good one for you. EOS go on then! EOS Did you move house at all
when you were younger? And what memories do you have of this? EOS Why-
why’s that a good one? EOS You moved a few times, didn’t you? EOS Me?
EOS Yeah, you moved house three times didn’t you? EOS When I was
younger? EOS Yeah. EOS No I didn’t! EOS I only moved from **anon** EOS
yeah EOS **anon**. EOS Well I thought there were somewhere before
that. EOS No, my Mum- EOS You moved to uni as well didn’t you? EOS Oh
are you talking about- it’s my childhood is it, or? When I was
younger- no but I went to live in **anon** when I was eighteen, but-
that was . EOS No but I thought- I though there was somewhere before
**anon**. EOS No, mum and dad, after they got married, my mum and dad
went to live in erm- on **anon**. EOS yeah EOS They lived in a house
on **anon**. But then once- then they moved to **anon**, on **anon**
and that’s when they had the chil- the thr- the- the three of us
there. EOS Right. EOS Yeah cos **anon** was a baby when we moved to
**anon**. EOS right EOS Cos it was a three bed semi and it wasn’t big
enough, so that’s when they were-**anon**, where me mum and dad live
now. EOS Yeah. EOS Used to be a big old like manor house. EOS ooh EOS
Called **anon**, and that was demolished. EOS And **anon** bought it
all and- and built all those houses. Erm but left all the **anon**
trees round it, that’s why it got its name. And so we moved there and
I think-. EOS Yeah it’s a history lesson as well. EOS yeah, EOS I was
six when I moved there. **anon** was one, yeah. EOS So you won’t
remember much. EOS So I- oh I remember it, gosh. Yeah, what do you
mean? EOS No, about the move I didn’t think you’d-. EOS Oh I can
remember it, yeah, oh, god yeah I can remember it. Mm, it was only
down the road. EOS yeah. EOS That’s true. EOS Yeah. EOS That’s when
you used to go caravanning, wasn’t it? EOS I did, yes. Don’t think
that’s on the list. EOS . EOS Yeah we used to go caravanning, yeah,
that- but that was when we lived at **anon**. So er used to leave the
caravan on the drive. And my mum hated it. EOS Oh no! EOS yeah she
used to dread it so we got rid of the caravan in the end. EOS yeah,
yeah EOS Well we sold it to me friend’s mum and dad. EOS Right. EOS
Okay. EOS So erm- well you didn’t really move round very much, you
stayed in one house. And your house was interesting. EOS They moved
when I was a baby and I don’t remember that. EOS Right. But the house
you lived in and were- was brought up in. EOS Yeah. EOS Was a big
terrace on erm, the main road in- in **anon**. And you had a number of
generations of families living in the same house. EOS Mhmm. EOS Do you
want to talk us through that? EOS Well there was me and my- my brother
and sisters. Mum and dad, cos me dad’s-. EOS So that’s how many, five
to start with Five children, younger children. EOS Seven with mum and
dad. EOS oh, seven- oh yeah, yeah. Mum and dad that’s seven people.
EOS But because there’s a fourteen year gap between myself and my
brother, and then another two years between my sister **anon** and
another two years between my sister **anon** EOS mm EOS they had sort
of grown up and moved out. EOS While I was quite young. EOS yeah. EOS
Er **anon** was at university while I was about five or six. EOS Aye.
EOS So they effectively had moved out when I was quite young. So there
was me and my younger sister **anon**, mum and dad, my dad’s sister,
Auntie **anon** and my dad and my Auntie’s father, EOS granddad, who
lived there. EOS And he was the boss. EOS Oh he was. EOS aww EOS
Granddad was the boss. EOS And he was called **anon**. EOS Yeah.
**anon**. EOS ah EOS yeah, **anon**. And he ruled, and I know this
because of my mum. Because my mum erm also, as well as going to school
with **anon** they were quite big church goers, and Bruce’s **anon**
family, the **anon** were church goers and they used to meet up at
church and **anon** and me mum used to sing in the same choir, didn’t
they? EOS That’s right. And your Auntie **anon** I think. EOS And
Auntie **anon** er, my mum’s sister. And er- and so she knew of the
family – obviously, they knew the family well. But they knew about
this granddad who-who was like sort of very traditional values. And
ruled the house quite strictly, didn’t he? EOS Yeah, yeah. EOS And
they were all very- well they weren’t- well you had a great deal of
respect for him, you weren’t particularly- were you frightened of him?
EOS Oh yeah, none the worse for it, oh definitely. EOS Oh yeah he was
frightened of him then, so . EOS yeah but we all loved him to bits,
and- EOS yeah EOS But er- anything we wanted to do, or go anywhere, we
had to ask. You know I didn’t ask my dad, cos he’d say, ‘ask your
granddad.’ EOS yeah . EOS and- EOS And also, wasn’t your dad- he
worked sh- nights. So you didn’t see your dad that much. You probably
saw more of your granddad and your grandma. EOS Yeah only- I only saw
me dad coming in from work in the morning, off his night shift, cos he
worked permanent nights for about twenty five years. EOS mm, mm EOS
And he came home about eight o’clock in the morning, had something to
eat, went to bed, I’d go off to school, come back, he’d be getting up
and then off to work. EOS Yeah, so really- EOS only really saw him at
the weekends. EOS yeah, so that’s probably why granddad- cos he’d be
retired then wouldn’t he, granddad? EOS yeah, yeah. EOS And- and your
grandma-. EOS I never saw my grandma. EOS Oh did you not, EOS no EOS
oh she passed away before- oh right, okay. EOS Yeah. That was me dad’s
mother. But I- I saw a lot of me mum’s mother. EOS Oh right. Yeah you
did, yeah. EOS who lived a few streets away. EOS she lived around-
yeah, cos now that was an interesting thing, because your mum’s mum
erm- your mum went over to bring her back didn’t she? EOS No, no, no
she came home. EOS Am I right? Oh I’ve got it all wrong. EOS No I
don’t know how she managed it, but she managed to get her over to
England in the- probably the nineteen sixties. EOS what are we looking
at- Crikey! EOS And she was quite elderly when she came over. EOS
Right. EOS So didn’t speak very much English. EOS mm EOS But still
managed to get to the shops when she could, while she was mobile
enough and able to-. EOS Wonder how she got here then? EOS While she
was able to get to the shops and buy a few things. EOS mm, aye, she
lived round the corner, didn’t she, In the big family home. EOS Yeah,
yeah. EOS Hmm, shall we get onto this- how long have we been at it?
EOS Twelve minutes. EOS oh, erm what fun things are t- are there to do
in your community? EOS Fun, round here? EOS Well, we got the Trafford
centre. EOS yeah EOS That’s the- the biggest thing, because er- since
the Trafford centre’s come along, there’s lots of- it’s my-. EOS I
know it’s no corner shop but- EOS I think it’s great fun cos I like
going shopping! So it’s like- if you like your shopping, it’s a
woman’s kind of er- what would you say? EOS Well it’s my hobby, going
there. EOS yeah EOS And er, what other things? Well we don’t often
walk into our local shopping area, but we did the previous Saturday
night, didn’t we? EOS Yeah. EOS And we thoroughly enjoyed it, but
noticed how mu- noticed all the improvements in the local town centre,
but realised how much more needed to be done. EOS yeah EOS It was kind
of half finished, so erm, but we’ve got sports centres, and I did used
to belong to the local gym and I’m not any more EOS And really over
the years, we have used all local facilities. Haven’t we? EOS Yeah
we’ve used all the sports centres, the swimming baths. EOS Used all
the sports centres and- EOS Maybe not- not public transport as much as
we should have done. EOS No. No, but we use the park, EOS yeah EOS we
used the park a lot when the boys were younger. EOS Yeah. EOS Erm-.
EOS Yeah they played for local football teams, local swimming club.
EOS Yeah, yeah. EOS So there is plenty to do, if you want, if you look
for it EOS Oh it’s all there. It’s ideal where we live, because it’s
erm- it’s in a good area, isn’t it? For erm accessing services really.
EOS Yeah it’s- it’s very EOS Walk to most things can’t we? EOS yeah
EOS It’s only a few minutes from Manchester. EOS Yeah walk into
Urmston, get the train into Manchester. Cos we’re not on- quite near
the- near enough for the tram link yet. EOS Traffic’s never too bad.
EOS No. EOS Apart from a few days near Christmas. EOS mm, yeah. EOS
But generally, getting into Manchester’s quite easy, yeah EOS Yeah.
And we got some nice local restaurants, haven’t we? EOS If you can get
in. EOS yeah EOS yeah well, yeah, I didn’t finish my story about the
other Saturday night. EOS When we walked into Urmston, thinking we
could just get into a restaurant, thinking, ‘well nobody really goes
out in Urmston,’ and it was very deserted, all the streets, but all
the pubs and the restaurants were jam-packed full EOS . EOS And we
were pleasantly surprised weren’t we? EOS Yeah. EOS Cos if we go out
we don’t tend to go local, do we? Generally. EOS Not generally, don’t
think I’ve- EOS Not generally, we’ve always gone out somewhere into
town, or to people’s houses or whatever, or stay in and entertain
with- So, there you go. EOS So what about school? EOS What about
school? EOS about your memories of school? EOS Well I’ve got really
erm, happy memories actually, of school. But erm, certainly from when
I went to **anon**, and yet I was quite shocked when I went to a
reunion, quite a number of years ago, ooh crikey, it would be probably
about seven- no maybe longer, maybe ten years ago, I went to a
reunion. And there was about sixty-odd of us all at the Urmston
cricket club, all who’d gone- EOS yeah EOS some of us had stayed on
into sixth form, quite a lot had left in the fifth year, cos in those
days, er late seventies early eighties, not everybody was encouraged
to stay on. EOS So quite a lot left in the fifth year. Which is year
eleven. And erm- and I was quite shocked at all those who had left,
they’d left cos they were so unhappy. EOS Really? EOS Yeah. They hated
the teachers, thought they were weirdos. EOS And erm, they couldn’t
understand why we’d all stayed on. And erm- and I was shocked that
when they were telling me about being unhappy, cos we were dead happy
there. EOS Yeah. EOS And- and I was quite shocked at how many were
bullied. EOS oh EOS I was sh- I was absolutely shocked at that. Cos I
was never once bullied. And I’m not a bully myself, I wasn’t doing the
bullying EOS no EOS They were bullied by the teachers or the pupils?
EOS Teachers and other pupils. EOS God EOS Mm, cos it was an all
girl’s school when I went there. Erm but- not that that’s any excuse
but er- I was- we came away quite upset actually, for some of them, I
couldn’t believe it. Prior to that, I went to **anon**, and **anon**,
and my memories of that school-. EOS Are that- of that long passageway
from the infants to the juniors and back. EOS yeah EOS And it’s
bizarre, because erm- couple of years ago when me younger sister had
**anon** er- we were trying to get him to sleep at night and I said,
‘oh I’ll t-’ we were at my mum’s, who lived- me mum lives quite close
to the school, and I said, ‘oh I’ll take **anon** out in the pram,’ so
I thought ‘oh I’ll- I’m gonna go down **anon** and have a look at me
old school.’ EOS Yeah. EOS And it was- it was a real sort of funny
feeling going down there, EOS mm EOS and I was looking at how it had
all changed, I couldn’t believe how different it looked. The- the
actual original building’s still there but they’ve added on and-. EOS
Yeah. EOS Changed the playground a bit and- and all me memories came
flooding back. And the first thing I remembered as I’m- as I’m
approaching at the bottom of **anon**, and going left onto the
passageway, erm I just remember I felt really big, this- I felt really
tall, this big tall person. EOS Because when I was last down there, I
was this little tiny person, EOS ahh, yeah EOS and the passageway
looked so big and- and long. EOS yeah EOS And yet it was just a tiny
little pass-way- passageway really. EOS yeah EOS It wasn’t anywhere
near as- as big and long as it was when you’re little. But what I
instantly thought about when I looked at the main entrance of the
junior school was- was always the smell of sour milk EOS and bottles
that had been kicked over by the boys football. EOS yeah EOS And what
it was, we used to have milk delivered in glass bottles, and the- EOS
It was like half a pint wasn’t it? EOS Yeah small bottles of milk. And
the lads were terrible for the football and they’d kick it around and
it’d eventually get kicked at the- the milk bottles and they’d be
smashed all over the front. EOS And erm-. EOS Did you- did you drink
it? EOS Milk everywhere. And it was warm as well, when it was
delivered into the classroom, EOS oh EOS it was warm, and we drank it.
EOS Oh I- I used to hate it. EOS See I- I think I quite liked it, cos
it’s creamy. EOS ahh, but it was warm and horrible EOS I used to give
mine away. EOS Did you? EOS Yeah. EOS Oh no I think I er- I think I
drank it. Yeah didn’t mind it. EOS It was alright in the winter, but
in the summer it was just-. EOS But it was that smell, I could smell
it the minute I got to- to th- to the erm- the passageway where the
school is, EOS mm EOS I could- I could even smell the milk EOS that’s
funny. EOS yeah, yeah and then I walked round to the infants and that
just seemed so tiny, that entrance. EOS yeah EOS I just remember the
school- I looked at the- the erm the door to the entrance, the infant
entrance- well it’s all in- sorry the younger end and erm, I just
remember when you walked through those doors, the cloakroom was on the
right and then there’s this long corridor with the classrooms off it.
EOS Yeah. EOS And the hall on the left. And erm I just kept thinking
about all the teachers and erm- there was a teacher there apparently,
I think she must’ve been the reception teacher, called **anon** who
apparently, me mum said used to absolutely adore me. EOS Aww. EOS I
had this big round chubby face that was always red EOS and I used to
come back with lipstick all over my face where she’d been kissing me,
apparently. EOS Can you believe that? EOS Oh they’d never get away
with that now would they? EOS No they wouldn’t, they wouldn’t. And
erm, I couldn’t say **anon** and I used to call her Mi- **anon**. EOS
aww EOS Cos you knew which side your bread was buttered didn’t you?
EOS I did EOS . So erm, that was my r- early recollections of erm the
infants and juniors. What about yours? EOS Well my school was called
**anon**. EOS mm EOS **anon**. EOS Which is the school your- your mum
went to, and your Auntie **anon**. EOS Yeah . EOS Er, it was church of
England erm, juniors and infant school. EOS Right. EOS But prior to me
going, it was also a secondary school. EOS mm EOS For- for kids up to
the age of fourteen I think, in those days. EOS mm EOS Er but that
stopped when my secondary school, which was **anon** opened in EOS
Yeah. EOS **anon**. EOS Oh that’s when I was born. EOS That’s when you
were born. EOS And I w- I started there in nineteen sixty seven, I
think. EOS Ooh. EOS Yeah, and it’s now being demolished. EOS Aww. EOS
oh no EOS because it’s built on the edge of Barton Moss, EOS oh EOS
which is like boggy and peaty. EOS yeah. EOS And it was sinking EOS
gonna say it’s bloody sinking! . Yeah, betit is. EOS And it was built
in the early sixties and not very well built. EOS Oh gosh! EOS Yeah.
EOS And a lot of the erm the walls had been kicked in at times and EOS
it was okay when I was there, but apparently years later it was really
tatty, so it’s being demolished and it’s now **anon**. Very er- very
posh. EOS ahh EOS mm, yeah. EOS But the estate it’s on has got a lot
rougher since- EOS mm EOS since I was there. EOS Yeah. EOS And it’s so
bad buses won’t go on the estate at night now. EOS Whoah! EOS Oh gosh!
EOS And at one time it was a really nice-. EOS Yeah. EOS Sort of
showpiece council estate. EOS It’s where the cemetery is, have you
ever been to the cemetery at the end of the-? EOS On **anon**. EOS
Yeah. EOS **anon**, at the end of the motorway there, the erm- EOS
That estate. EOS yeah EOS yeah, if you’re- you’re gonna be cremated
basically you go-. EOS yeah. EOS Well actually no, burials as well
aren’t there? EOS yeah, but- yeah but I was quite happy there but it
wasn’t a very academic school, and in the old system of CSEs, it’s
before GCSEs. EOS Yeah. EOS We all did the CSE course EOS mm EOS and
if they thought you were good enough, you did a little bit of extra
work to get you through the O-level. EOS Yeah. EOS But it was only
really designed to scrape through EOS yeah EOS oh, right, okay EOS the
O-levels. EOS yeah, EOS yeah. EOS Which I found out when I came to do
A-levels and it was, ‘whoah!’ Completely-. EOS Really? EOS Bit of a
big leap from that to A-level, mm EOS Yeah, massive leap cos I’d only
really done CSE. EOS Yeah. EOS he hadn’t done GCSE standard. EOS Yeah.
EOS So yeah then it’d be too much, wouldn’t it? EOS So yeah then
A-levels were a big- big jump. EOS mm EOS mm, Yeah. EOS Yeah, so that
was the big difference between- say the grammar schools now and -. EOS
Cos there is now isn’t there even? EOS yeah EOS Cos really they help
you so much more I think with your GCSEs certainly, EOS mm EOS and
then A-levels you’re not as- you don’t there’s a big step up isn’t
there? EOS Yeah EOS yeah EOS yeah and with the eleven plus they do
round here, EOS yeah EOS at least if you go to **anon**, you’re still
doing the same course. EOS you’re still- Yeah and you’re still gonna
do well as well aren’t you? EOS As the people at the grammar, so if
you apply yourself, EOS mm EOS and stay clear of the ones who don’t
want to work, EOS yeah EOS there’s no reason why you shouldn’t do
well. EOS You can do well can’t you? EOS But- EOS That wasn’t
encouraged then. EOS No. EOS At secondary school. EOS No, not at all
really. And the junior school I went to erm, didn’t do any practice
papers for the eleven plus, EOS mm EOS which I know they don’t do now,
but erm-. EOS Parents are aware of practice papers and things. EOS
yeah EOS Oh God yeah, yeah mm. EOS But in those days, some schools did
practice papers and- EOS mm EOS and half the class would pass. EOS So
when you saw your eleven plus paper, that’d be the first time you’d
ever seen one. EOS And like, ‘what? What’s that?’ EOS I mean, it
doesn’t matter how clever you are, you can’t do it can you, unless you
practice it. EOS yeah, yeah EOS Well one person passed. EOS Let me
stick this light- oh sorry but I can’t move! EOS yeah, you can EOS
Sorry, it’s alright I was just gonna put the light on. EOS One person
passed in my class. No right channel EOS Really? EOS And she’s now a
top barrister in London. EOS wow EOS So that’s how clever you had to
be. EOS Whose sister- EOS **anon**. EOS her- Right channel resumes)
EOS her younger sister was in-. EOS **anon**. EOS **anon** was she in
the year above me, I think at **anon**. She went to do- EOS I think
she went to do mechanical engineering. Oh thanks, yeah. . EOS But
their parents owned-. EOS They’re really clever girls anyway I think,
aren’t they? EOS Yeah their parents owned **anon** at the time. EOS Oh
right. EOS Cos they sold parker pens. EOS Oh did they live in Eccles
then, and come on the coach down to the grammar? EOS Er they probably
came on the bus. EOS There used to be the number twenty two. cos they
lived near **anon**. And the bus used to go from **anon**. EOS Oh yes,
right. EOS I think it still does EOS So- so don’t they have a special
bus for them- coach for them from Salford, don’t they? EOS Mm. EOS
Yeah they do now. EOS Cos I remember that starting. EOS But there w-
there was a lot- it was fifty-fifty, those who went to the grammar,
EOS yeah EOS it was fifty-fifty, if you went to **anon** or **anon**.
EOS Yeah. Ah yeah right, okay. EOS But it always annoyed me because
this **anon**, it was always me or her who were top. EOS Aww EOS aww
rivalry. EOS Yeah. And then-. EOS Do you think she did practice papers
then? EOS Yeah that was what I was saying, her mum and dad had this
posh paper shop and they- they probably knew about practice papers and
things. EOS Oh, they would have known about- how annoying. EOS Yeah.
But- EOS And they never told anybody else. EOS the good old days,
yeah. EOS Yeah, cos it seems a bit of a coincidence that she was the
only one that passed. EOS Yeah. EOS yeah, because me, her and three
other girls skipped a class between the infants and the juniors, we
didn’t go in to what is now year three. EOS oh yeah, yeah. EOS We went
into year four. EOS oh EOS Why would they do that, that’s silly? EOS
They used to- used to- they used to do daft things like that, like,
‘oh you’re clever enough to go into year four, you don’t need to- you
don’t-’ EOS so you missed a whole year? EOS Yeah, when you learn your
tables and things like that. EOS yeah EOS Oh that’s ludicrous! EOS But
that’s what they used to do. EOS Mm, it is terrible that. EOS And even
though we weren’t at the bottom of that class-. EOS Yeah. EOS We were
somewhere near the top, but not at the top. EOS mm, what a shame. EOS
Yeah. EOS And it was weird, you know, splitting us up from all our
friends, EOS yeah, that is weird EOS and then you make new friends
and-. and, that’s how I got to know **anon**. EOS Yeah- **anon**? EOS
Who I used to go- I used to go to the match with. EOS Oh right was in
the year above? EOS Cos he was in that year above, yeah. EOS Oh right.
You see you’ve always had friends that have been older than you,
haven’t you? EOS Yeah, and I think it’s because of that. EOS yeah EOS
I’ve noticed that, you know, even now I’m thinking of **anon** and
erm- actually **anon** the same age, isn’t he? EOS Yeah. EOS Erm those
other blokes, I mean a lot of them have moved away now, but when I
first met you, EOS a lot of your friends were older than you and I-
‘oh I used to go to school with him but he was in the year above, or
the year above that.’ EOS yeah EOS Yeah well it probably started off-.
EOS So that- I wonder if that’s why? EOS knowing **anon** and a few
others. Then we went to the same secondary school so I- I was back in
my proper year. EOS Oh really? EOS But your friends were in the year
above, EOS A lot of me friends were in the year above, EOS yeah, it’s
a shame isn’t it EOS yeah EOS but I was still friends with- I was
still friends with kids in my year. So I was friends with both. And
then I go to know others. EOS Yeah, yeah EOS In the year above, like
**anon**. EOS mm EOS Yeah, EOS People like that. And then h- with the
other people, I think you’re probably thinking of **anon** and people
like that. EOS Oh it’s **anon** yes, yeah. EOS Who’s like three years
older than me. EOS yeah EOS He’s quite a bit isn’t he, yeah. EOS But
all that came about through volleyball. EOS Yeah. EOS ooh EOS Which we
used to play at our school, EOS You did, yeah. EOS because- cos our
maths teacher played for England, EOS woah EOS at volleyball, so we
were the only school who could play it properly. EOS yeah EOS Us and
**anon** and **anon** and we used to play them. So that’s how I got to
know people like **anon**, **anon** who went to **anon**. EOS Oh gosh,
yeah, mm EOS And **anon** who went to **anon**. EOS Mm, oh they were
clever lads weren’t they? EOS And when we all- when we all left school
we all got a team together. EOS Yeah. EOS So we were quite a different
you know erm, wide ranging age group. EOS mm EOS Yeah. EOS And pretty
much kept in touch up until the last few years, when we’ve got married
and had kids and-. EOS Oh. EOS I know, and also we- we’ve lost a lot
of friends through divorce, cos of- you know people like **anon**
split up hasn’t he? EOS Yeah . EOS Quite a lot of them have er- well
they’ve moved abroad, I mean **anon** and **anon** who we’re really
friendly with, and they went to live in Canada, I remember feeling
dead upset when they went away and it’s really hard to keep in touch
with people. EOS Yeah. EOS When they move away as well, and then
obviously if they split up it sort of becomes awkward then EOS yeah
EOS because you don’t know EOS which one to choose EOS which one to
choose. EOS Yeah if there’d been things like facebook you know like
fifteen years ago. EOS Yeah probably would’ve stayed in touch with
them better really. EOS It would’ve been a lot easier. EOS Yeah. You
remember to go on it and- EOS Yeah and mobile phones, and texting. EOS
yeah EOS Yeah, yeah EOS Emails. EOS I know. EOS Cos it used to be
having to rely on letters didn’t it, and- EOS yeah EOS mm EOS An
expensive phone call, if they were abroad. EOS Yeah that’s right.
Yeah, I mean it’d be nice to go to Canada and see **anon** and
**anon** wouldn’t it? EOS yeah. EOS Although I don’t really fancy
Canada. I mean, I know we did Niagara falls last year, that was only
touching into it a bit, but, EOS mm EOS I don’t know it doesn’t
really- there’s nothing about Canada that really appeals to me to go
to, like- EOS yeah EOS I like America where you’ve got- seem to have
so much there to offer you. So- it’s got everything hasn’t it? EOS
Well I think where they are in Vancouver, it’s on the edge of the
rocky mountains. EOS yeah EOS Well that’s it, it’s probably my
ignorance really. EOS And it’s supposed to be really, really nice. EOS
mm EOS I know it’s supposed to be really clean. Cos I know when
**anon** and **anon** have been over- **anon** been over more so than
**anon** EOS yeah EOS but he always says when he- cos he’ll always-
cos his parents live on **anon**, EOS oh, okay EOS so if he’s home
he’ll always come and see us EOS yeah EOS and erm- cos you remember he
knocked at the door and **anon** didn’t know who he was? EOS So
**anon** had this funny conversation with him and he said, ‘oh come
and wait for them, oh, wait in for them,’ cos we were out. EOS It’s-
It’s **anon** uncle, actually. EOS It’s **anon** uncle. EOS Ah okay
EOS Yeah. EOS Yeah now there’s a story. EOS And erm **anon**-
**anon**- **anon** didn’t sort of- ‘well who are you, I don’t really
want to let you in my house,’ EOS he’s, ‘oh just wait for them,’ yeah.
EOS Oh no. EOS Yeah. EOS So- yeah so- so but when erm, **anon** was
last round here a few years back, she- she said, ‘I can’t believe how
dirty Manchester is.’ EOS Really? EOS They’d been out in the city
centre and she just said, ‘there’s just rubbish everywhere, it’s just
filthy.’ EOS An- and actually funnily enough, last night when I went
to take- yesterday when I went to take that dvd back to blockbuster,
it’s absolutely filthy round that area where blockbuster is, the back
of macdonalds, where people have just thrown all the fast food sh-
outlets. EOS It’s all the macdonald’s, kfc isn’t it? Pizza hut. EOS
They’re just- there’s bins there and the people just throw it, now
you- I must admit even in A- where we’ve been in America, you wouldn’t
see that. EOS Yeah. EOS It’s for being back- back- back in New York,
but- EOS But it’s lazy people who dri- go to the drive through isn’t
it, and they just eat their food. EOS And they just chuck it
everywhere. EOS yeah EOS And they’re too lazy to get out aren’t they?
EOS Yeah. EOS And I- and I can’t understand why whole families eat in
the car, when they can go inside. EOS No, I’m- yeah. EOS I know and
they just- they just chuck things out and but sort of o- like **anon**
said in Canada, there’s just people constantly clearing rubbish up all
the time. EOS Well it’s- it’s like that at Disneyland isn’t it? EOS
Mm. EOS mm EOS There’s people- EOS yeah EOS everywhere scooping litter
up. EOS and there’ll be parts of Canada and America that are dirty but
she did say that when she- when they moved out there they couldn’t get
over what- how clean EOS yeah EOS everything looked. And spick and
span, and- EOS And- and- and when she comes back she notices how dirty
Manchester seems to be. EOS mm EOS Well I think Canada’s got a smaller
population than Britain. EOS It’s more spread out as well. EOS Yeah.
EOS yeah, and it’s- EOS I think erm-. EOS I think it’s the second
largest country in the world, isn’t it? EOS We’re more highly- densely
populated, mm. Yeah. EOS Yeah. EOS So you obviously had a lot of
friends didn’t you, when you were younger? EOS Yeah. EOS Yeah we had a
lot because I’m one of four girls and we used to share friends. EOS Oh
okay EOS cos we were all fairly close, you do that with sisters. EOS
aww, yeah EOS So- and it- it’s interesting cos even erm- when I went
to me elder sister’s fiftieth on Friday, I was telling them at work
today, they were saying, ‘how did you get on?’ and I was saying, ‘oh
it was really fun,’ you know, and some of them, the fifty- fifty
somethings that were there, you see I’ve known them for donkey’s years
really, like **anon**. EOS Yeah. EOS Cos **anon** used to share a flat
with **anon** and- and erm-. EOS I just remember erm- you know, I used
to go out with her as well, we- so we, you know, we’d share friends.
EOS Yeah. EOS And erm, and like **anon** my best friend now, who’s
really good friends with **anon** isn’t she? EOS yeah. EOS She- you
know we’ve always been like that. Cos we- we- although my sisters are
like me- me sisters are like my friends as well. EOS Yeah. EOS And erm
so we sort of erm- we know about each other’s friends as well. And
erm, and ask about them. And er, yeah. EOS Yeah. Well this question
here’s just reminded me of something. EOS Which one? EOS Did you ever
get into trouble for something at school, were you ever blamed for
something that wasn’t your fault? Well I was blamed for something
once. EOS oh no EOS It was at lunchtime, and then you c- you could go
home for your lunch if you wanted, EOS yeah EOS or you could stay at
school and I went through periods of doing both. EOS mm EOS So it was
o- on one of my supposed-to-be going home for lunch periods. EOS
Right. EOS When we used to go to the chippy. We went to the chippy and
just for something to do we walked round the estate got onto the
school fields in the far corner. There was a gate there, it wasn’t a
problem, walked across the school fields, back to school and the
headmaster was wait- waiting for us. And it was, ‘you boys! You’ve all
been smoking!’ EOS ‘I’m telling you, you ha- you have even if you
haven’t.’ EOS ‘No we’re not!’, ‘Yep you’ve all been smoking, there’s
no other reason to be on the fields at lunchtime.’ EOS So we all got
the slipper. EOS Oh no. EOS Cos he was a real bully. EOS Yeah. EOS So
when my dad found out-. EOS Was that on a bare bottom as well? EOS No
you kept your trousers on! EOS Oh right, that’s alright then! EOS It’s
not ‘Tom Brown’s schooldays’ or whatever EOS . EOS Well we’re going
back a number of years, you know EOS Yeah the nineteen sixties, not
the eighteen sixties! EOS So er- my dad went bananas. EOS Did he? EOS
Rang the school up and-. EOS Not granddad **anon**? EOS No I think my
granddad might have died by then. EOS Oh. EOS But my dad rang up and
said, ‘if- if the- if our Bruce **anon** wants to smoke, he can smoke,
he’s got my permission.’ EOS . EOS Did he? EOS Yeah. Cos me dad was
heavy smoker and it- it wasn’t a. EOS his Dad was EOS , ‘oh well,
that’s alright, ah, thanks, I’ve got the option now.’ EOS But you’ve
never smoked, have you? EOS No, tried a few but didn’t like them. EOS
yeah EOS didn’t like it EOS No, thank goodness, yeah. EOS yeah EOS
Actually that- it’s made me think of something, about **anon**. We
used to get the ruler, the girls got the ruler and the lads got the
cane EOS from **anon**. Who was the headt- well he was deputy head
when I was there and then when I left I believe he became the head
for- for a long, long time. And erm, my elder sister **anon**
particularly didn’t get on with him, he used to pick a lot on **anon**
for some reason. And I remember at one parent’s evening erm-. EOS Me-
me dad- well they’d gone to parent’s evening, they’d been to som- some
problem between this teacher- I think actually- sorry at the time he
was- I don’t think he was even deputy head, this **anon** he might’ve
just been- just a general teacher. And there’d been some incident with
me sister, I can’t even remember what it was but I just- I just
remember erm me mum telling me that at parent’s evening me dad just
threw a wobbler and got him up against this- EOS teacher up against
the wall, and was like just about to thump him one. And, ‘leave my
daughter alone, you know I’m sick of you picking on her!’ EOS Yeah.
EOS Cos I think he really did, he just- you know when some teachers
just don’t like certain people he just didn’t like our **anon**. EOS
Yeah. EOS This **anon**. EOS Mm. EOS And erm and he- in fact he- he- I
think he’s died recently he’s been- in fact he has, because-. EOS It
was **anon** mentioned it. EOS Yeah **anon** told me. Who’s a builder,
you know **anon** and erm, **anon** dad. EOS Oh okay yeah. EOS
**anon** was in our **anon** class at- at junior school and- and EOS
yeah EOS again rec- cos when he was doing the building work on our
house, we were having conversations and I found out erm it was
**anon**- he was in **anon** class and I said, ‘ooh did you ever come
across **anon**?’ and he went, ‘**anon**! Oh God he was awful I hated
him.’ Apparently he used to have- this is awful what they used to do,
teachers in them days. Erm- he didn’t just cane **anon** cos I think
**anon** was quite naughty. EOS yeah EOS Erm he used to make **anon**
sit at his desk- at the teacher’s desk and **anon** would have to do
all his work there. And if he dare lift his head up, he apparently had
a erm- erm what do you call it? Ping Pong bat with a face drawn on it-
EOS this is the teacher, and he’d crack him over the head with it
every time he lifted his head up. EOS God! EOS That was **anon**. EOS
Yeah. EOS And then I remember erm bumping into **anon** and he told
me, ‘you’re never gonna believe it, that B-duh-duh-duh-duh-duh’ EOS
‘has died now.’ EOS And it was in the paper, but he lived ‘til he was-
I think in his nineties. EOS gosh EOS And he lived I think off
**anon** in Flixton and we used to see him going up and down the road
and our **anon** erm, went to **anon**. And she set off obviously me
mum and dad’s in **anon** and she had to- she’d have to pass him every
day and she used to think, ‘oh I hate you!’ you know, after she’d
left, and- EOS Yeah. EOS Cos he used to pr- practically bully her
really. And erm absolutely hated him. I had no trouble with him he was
alright with me and I think the other two he was alright with,
**anon** and **anon** don’t think they had any trouble. EOS Yeah you’d
have thought he might have had something against you as well, being
**anon** sister. EOS oh, yeah EOS Yeah, no, well I think after this
incident with me dad about to batt- batter him-. EOS Oh right. EOS
scared EOS He- he was- he- he wouldn’t have any- we were fine after
that. Mm, I was gonna talk about something else then but er- I forgot-
ooh so I’m just coming onto like corporal punishment really because
what we- what we did- we- you know you have a spelling test oh well we
still had spelling tests in them days. EOS Yeah. EOS And then say it
was out of ten you know, depending on how many you got wrong, erm
you’d have to line up at **anon** desk. EOS And you would get thrashed
basically, EOS so if you got five out of ten, you got five lashes of
the cane, and five- that was the lads, and the girls would get the
ruler on the back of their hands five times, or dependent on how many
spellings you got wrong. EOS gosh EOS And that was a regular thing,
wasn’t it? EOS So hence, your spelling’s quite good! EOS yeah EOS
That’s why I’ve got- really have good spelling actually, cos it was
the thought of getting the ruler. But I can only remember erm, a black
girl who was in my class called **anon** I’ll never forget her. And
erm her brother was in I think the year below or couple of years
below. And they- both her and her brother were adopted, and she had
white parents. And again, they lived actually on **anon**. And she was
absolutely terrified of **anon** and I always remember one day she
just- you know I think she just freaked out if she ever got the- the
ruler. EOS yeah EOS And she cheated in this spelling test and she-
she’d actually written the spellings on her desk. EOS ooh EOS Cos we
had wooden desks in those days EOS yeah EOS and you used a fountain
pen. EOS And er anyway she’d- she’d obviously done surprisingly very
well in this test EOS and he was obviously suspicious, EOS so we all
went out to play and then obviously he was snooping round and he saw
these spellings written on her desk. EOS Etched into the er- . EOS
Yeah. Oh I’ll never forget it, it was awful, and he made her scrub it
with bleach and everything and-. EOS Oh no. EOS Oh it was just awful.
Yeah, you lived in fear really you know. EOS yeah EOS Mostly you did.
But then I went to the grammar school and I was quite- you know, I had
quite a happ- happy time there really. EOS Yeah. EOS I mean I don’t
think I particularly had an unhappy time- I think I had a very happy
time in the infants and I think going into juniors was fine until we
had this particular teacher. EOS yeah EOS I think generally it was
him. EOS Yeah that’s the trouble isn’t it at infants and juniors, EOS
it’s teachers EOS teachers EOS you’re just stuck with the same teacher
for a year. EOS yeah EOS Yeah, yeah. I think I-. EOS And they’re stuck
with you if- if they feel the same, EOS yeah EOS yeah, yeah EOS I know
I don’t know how he ever got the deputy- well he was deputy head when
I was there and then he got the headship after I left. They were
probably frightened to not give it him. EOS yeah EOS To be honest. Mm,
still see him now, he was one of those blokes, sort of balding with a
bit of hair either side, like a bit of a mad professor type. EOS yeah
EOS Always had a tweed jacket on. EOS Oh yes they always had a tweed
jacket. EOS Yeah with patches here. EOS A bit portly. EOS Portly,
absolutely short and portly. And he just looked like that from the
minute he started there from- from- and I presume from when he left.
He just never looked any different. EOS He sounds just like **anon**
who we had at **anon**. EOS Who your Auntie **anon** remembers, he was
er- our equivalent. EOS oh, no EOS He had a choice of slipper, EOS it
was pu- it was pumps, slippers, there was a few EOS . EOS Yeah. EOS
One with nails sticking out just so it had a bit of . EOS Yeah he used
to run the tuckshop, and it was behind him, in his little room behind
him and he was- he was supposed to be teaching and he was just tucking
in to Jammy Dodgers and things like that, yeah. EOS Really? Awful. EOS
Well he was- but then he left and went to- after I left, he went to
**anon** school in Swinton. EOS Oh really, **anon**? EOS No **anon**
Junior school. EOS Oh a junior, right. EOS Yeah. EOS Was that a
private school? EOS No, EOS oh EOS but I think he’s lived round here
somewhere, apparently. EOS Really? Oh. EOS Yeah don’t know if he’s
still alive, he must be well into his eighties or nineties now. EOS mm
EOS mm EOS But yeah. Definitely old school. EOS yeah, mm, I’m just
looking here about having to help out around the house, erm this is
funny. In fact I was telling them, they must think I’m a bit of a
nutter at school- EOS at work sorry, cos I- I dunno how we got onto
this conversation, this was last week and we were talking about
sisters and things and getting on with families and stuff and I said
‘I can remember when erm, when the four of us- me and my three
sisters, were all living at home, in- on **anon**. EOS And erm I think
the younger two are a bit too young at the time t- to have to help
with chores so it was me and **anon** and we used to have to erm,
wash- we didn’t have dishwashers so we used to have to wash and dry
and put away. Now the person who washed up, EOS mmhmm EOS washed up
and that was it you could get out of the kitchen quick but the poor
person who had to dry also had to put away. EOS Aww EOS And guess who
always ended up drying and putting away cos she was a bit younger than
the older bossy sister. EOS . EOS Wouldn’t be you, would it? EOS yeah,
it was me and I can just remember just getting so fed up she’d rush
into the kitchen start washing up and I’d get in, I thought, ‘here I
am again, I’m having to dry.’ And then she’d you know, hurry up do it
much- obviously quicker cos it takes longer to- to dry and then put
away. She’d rush out and carry on doing what she was doing, watching
telly or whatever. And I just remember one day she was washing up and
I’m drying the knives and I got a knife to her I EOS But you know in a
sort of friendly kind of way. . EOS playful EOS There is- there is no
friendly kind of way. EOS And I was just getting it and say- getting-
cos we used to have steak knives as well so actually it was quite
sharp actually, EOS it was a very sharp steak knife. EOS Bit posh
that! EOS With er- a brown wooden handle, erm cos the reason why I
remember that is when you were washing up you weren’t allowed to put
the handles in the water. Because they were wooden. EOS ooh EOS
Because they were wood. EOS Yeah and you used to have to hold them
like that and- and clean the- the stainless steel edging. So, I just
remember getting it and saying, ‘I’m fed up of having to dry and put
away I’m fed up, you’ve got to let me wash them all’ EOS ‘wash the
pots for a change! Or I’m gonna tell mum and dad,’ like this. EOS I
think it did work, I seem to think having the knife there perhaps
helped EOS violence EOS did help a bit. EOS Better be careful hadn’t
I? EOS yeah EOS Yeah you just keep loading the do- dishwasher up Bruce
**anon** you’re alright. EOS Oh so that’s why we got one is it? There is a large amount of background noise throughout the recording
– this does not generally affect the audibility but is present
throughout EOS no, no, you’re right EOS it’s a good job I checked that
EOS yeah EOS oki doki, so can you just- just talk for a couple of
seconds normally just so I can EOS yeah EOS just hear- EOS my name is
Harriet Rickman **anon** EOS and I am absolutely fantastic EOS great
what about you? EOS Harriet **anon** speaks for the rest of the family
with EOS right, that’s fine I think EOS yeah EOS erm, take it away EOS
right, so what I was saying before is, years ago, when kids where in
the street if they were cheeky or anything like that EOS mm EOS you
give them a clip round the ear EOS and if they went running in saying
to their Mum, ‘Mum, Mum, Mrs such- and-such-a-body’, or, ‘Aunty
Doree’s just hit me’ her answer would be, ‘well, you must’ve deserved
it’ EOS yeah EOS and it was right, whereas now, a kid in the street,
the other week it was, erm, he stood right in front of me and he
wouldn’t let me pass EOS so, I got his arms like that and I moved him
to one side EOS yeah EOS and- EOS where was this, in yours? EOS it-
yeah, on- on **anon** EOS right EOS and he goes, ‘you’re not allowed
to touch me, I’m going to get the police’, so that’s what you get now
EOS yeah EOS whereas years ago, cos you knew you was gonna get a clip
round the ear EOS you didn’t do it EOS you didn’t do it EOS or you
chose who you did it to EOS yeah, now- EOS yeah EOS it- it’s a
different story, and like I say, you were always in your own street
EOS yeah EOS all- a lot of the doors were open, kids were playing, I
remember **anon** EOS mm EOS you know, the door was open, he was in
and out, and all the kids were in the street EOS yeah EOS you never
sorta moved out your area EOS no EOS whereas now, they do move out the
area, they do wander all over the place, and they’re in gangs EOS you
see th- I think the thing is though aswell like I- the- culturally,
we’ve changed so much, like, in them days EOS forty, fifty years ago,
you stayed with- from- from where you was born you went to school, you
got married, and you moved into the same area EOS yeah EOS near your
Mam EOS yeah EOS and that’s- that’s what happened, whereas nowadays,
you know, we- w- we finished school, and, you know, I come from
Salford, but I might get a job, say, in Warrington, or Cheshire, or
well, anywhere, because we’re a lot more mobile, we’ve got cars,
trains, and I- y- which you didn’t have in them days EOS yeah, so
you’d move out your area and a lotta p- like you say, a lotta people
are moving so the community is gone EOS yeah EOS people don’t know
everybody like they used to EOS no EOS do you know EOS yeah EOS the-
the know them there, them there, you know, and now, that’s gone, some
people don’t even see their neighbours, EOS yeah, a- or acknowledge
them EOS for days EOS yeah, EOS on end EOS I’ve got a lad near- EOS do
you know EOS I- you know, it’s very rare I mean I’ll- I’ll let onto
them neighbours there, but they never speak to anybody EOS no EOS erm,
and- but EOS what I’m thinking is, if you move away, so, say you move
to Warrington from- from Manchester when you’re bringing your own
children up, you don’t know your neighbours, so you wouldn’t allow
your children to play in the street would you EOS t- sp- no, no, th-
that’s another thing, a lotta kids now, at one s- that’s- I mean
**anon** said to me the other day, EOS yeah EOS ‘put the baby at the
door’, he says, ‘I took him for a- took him for a walk’ EOS yeah EOS
‘and I parked him outside the door’, he says, ‘now how often do you
see a child parked outside the door getting some fresh-’ you never,
but at one time babies were- you had a baby and, ‘ooh, look, they’ve
had a new baby’ cos it’d be outside the front door EOS yeah EOS in a
morning, washed, fed, time for a nap, in the pram and outside in the
air, you never see that now EOS no EOS they never put a baby at the
front door, cos you’re too scared someone’s gonna come along EOS yeah
EOS and snatch it EOS yeah, yeah, it’s horrible that really isn’t it
EOS it, yeah EOS cause that’s I mean- EOS yeah EOS that- EOS I think
that’s one- the one where you do get talking to people, is, because,
you know, y- you’ll be talking about, ‘ooh, is that you’re dog’, or
‘is that- ohh, is- is that your little’n’ and that’s how you get
communities building up, so it- it- it’s hard now isn’t it, I mean if
you’re working full time, EOS yep EOS so the kids are being dropped
off at a childminder’s, when do you get time to mix EOS that’s it, but
that’s another thing you see, I’d say ninety percent of the mothers
work now EOS yeah, yeah EOS whereas they didn’t then EOS yeah EOS
nobody worked then so, mothers were at home all day EOS mm EOS they
could socialise with the neighbours, and get to know the neighbours,
whereas now, you’re up in the morning, children at babyminders, out at
work, pick the kids up after work, back home, doing the tea, you’re
too knackered to do anything else, EOS no EOS to go socialising, most
of the time it’s- it’s EOS mm EOS weekends, and then it’s people you
already know EOS yeah, yeah EOS so you don’t get- y- you lose- you
losing a lot of the community, not just EOS well, like I say, women
having to go out to work EOS mm EOS because they can’t afford to
survive on the one wage EOS yeah EOS but that’s as well, because we’ve
got very materialistic, cos at one time EOS mm EOS if you didn’t have
a telly, you didn’t have a telly EOS yeah EOS it didn’t matter EOS
yeah EOS but now everybody wants, ‘ooh, the Joneses have got this, so’
EOS mm EOS ‘we want one’ EOS mm EOS so, to get these things you’ve
and- and in getting them things I think you’re sacrificing the
community part of it EOS yeah EOS you know, there’s that little
network is dwindling, but everyone’s becoming more materialistic,
they’ve got the video, they’ve got the computer, the children have got
all the best trainers, and this, that and the other EOS two cars on
the drive, yeah EOS yeah, so EOS mm EOS you’re g- you’re gaining
material things- EOS in one way, yeah EOS here, EOS yeah EOS but
you’re losing some of the values in the home, and the social EOS yeah
EOS think, on that side EOS I absolutely agree with you w- on that,
and I think from my perspective, you know, when m- me Mum left school,
her views on life, were, you know, get married to a lovely fella, have
children, build- build a home EOS yeah EOS you know, she- she went to,
erm, to college to do secretarial, erm, work as a stop gap, until what
she wanted was to get married, and have children- EOS wanted to get
married, but- EOS when I was leaving school, the last thing on earth I
wanted to do was get married and have children, EOS children EOS to me
that was a put down EOS yeah EOS my- from my perspective, it was, no,
get out in the workforce, you’re getting the best job you can, you’re
earning your own money, you know, your own wheels, independent EOS
‘dent EOS so I mean, in- in that short space of time and- EOS of time
EOS time and you’re only talking, well me Mum was twenty-one when she
had me and **anon** so it’s only, pff, eighteen, twenty years EOS
years, yeah EOS for a complete turn around EOS turn around, yeah EOS
but now I think women are realising EOS in- in, you know, in this day
in age, that we’ve lost out somewhere, you know, we’ve made a rod for
our own back, not only are we, you know, bringing up families, running
a household, you know, keeping a relationship together, hopefully, if
you do, but we’re also working full time EOS I know, it’s funny
because did you see it on the telly, that they said, although women
have got more rights, erm, more independence than this, that and the
other they are less happy, th- erm, ninety percent of them are less
happy than they were fifty years ago EOS yeah, yeah, EOS you know, th-
they- EOS I can really believe that EOS really not content at all EOS
mm EOS they said and I- I- I think it was Loose Women I was watching
and th- they were saying EOS oh yeah EOS I love them, and they were
saying it’s because, this professor says it’s because, women have too
high expectations of love EOS and romance and what they expect EOS
right, right EOS and one of them said, it’s not that they have too
high a expectations, it’s that they won’t settle for anything less EOS
right EOS whereas at one time, if you got married, you stayed because
of the children EOS right EOS and you put up with abuse, and you put
up with drinking, and you put up with all sorts, because EOS yeah,
yeah EOS that was the norm, it was a big shame at one time to get
divorced, EOS mm EOS or leave EOS yeah EOS the- the- you know,
separate EOS yeah, EOS whereas now- EOS cause I think it was always
the woman who was to blame, no matter what went on EOS on, yeah, yeah
EOS you know, socially, it was always the woman who was to blame you
know, she couldn’t keep her marriage together, she couldn’t do this
EOS yeah EOS she’s the one with the problem, whereas th- I mean that
must’ve been the shame that people had to carry if they decided to
leave a relationship then EOS yeah, I- I couldn’t imagine EOS mm EOS
having to stay in a relationship that I wasn’t happy in, no way EOS
no, no EOS I just couldn’t, I d- I- I wonder how these women coped EOS
I think EOS do you know, I’ve thought about this, and I honest-
honestly think that because women didn’t have a choice in them days,
erm, and perhaps I’m- might be talking a hundred years ago when
divorce wasn’t on the cards, erm, but you know, I know people from
other cultures from- from cultures which are very similar, erm, Ni-
Nigerian culture, if they- they’re not happy in a marriage, they
haven’t got a choice, they have to stay at it, and I think if you
think about it, that makes you work harder at it, if you haven’t got a
choice, if you’re stuck with this bugger for the next seventy years,
you aint gotta choice, you’ll work at making the relationship work for
you because you don’t have a choice, and perhaps now we’re- we’re
just, perhaps we’re thinking, ‘oh no, forget that, farts in bed,
that’s it, gone, next one’ EOS it’s too easy for us, yeah, too easy
for us to change, I suppose there’s certain things in that that you
could say, yeah EOS but there’s the extremes where you get EOS mm EOS
really horrible men that EOS right EOS are abusive and stuff EOS yeah
EOS women died because they couldn’t leave they’d, EOS yeah, yeah EOS
you know, g- get beat up and summet could happen whereas, mind you,
even now today you will see that a battered wife ninety percent of
them stay with the husband EOS yeah EOS they don’t always report it,
they cover it up, they, you know EOS mm EOS because they say it’s a
syndrome don’t they, EOS yeah EOS once you get in that situation, it’s
very, very hard EOS mm, yeah EOS to get out EOS and I- I think- I
think that- that’s t- very true, that is- that is very true, but- and
I think that’s- the- a battered wife syndrome is different from an
unhappy marriage, or- or a marriage that isn’t- EOS yeah EOS or, a
relationship that isn’t as fulfilling as you would want it to be EOS
yeah, it’s not got the spark- what- what you perceive as love and the
excitement and the butterflies in your stomach EOS I don’t care who
gets that EOS yeah, yeah EOS after twelve month that goes doesn’t it
EOS course it does EOS and it does end up the norm, EOS yeah EOS you
know, just EOS yeah EOS like a routine, ‘morning, love, right, off to
work, see you later, what do you want for tea’ EOS but in some ways I
think that’s really nice and that’s, you know, that’s one of the
things I miss about being in a long term relationship, perhaps the
mundane-cy of it, but, there’s somebody there who says, EOS yeah EOS
‘do you want a brew love’, or, EOS I’d- I- I know what you mean, and I
agree with you, that’s nice, but that’s where EOS the rot sets in EOS
a problem can start, because when you’re both going out to work,
you’re both meeting new people, and then someone pays you attention,
and there’s a bit of excitement there, that’s when EOS mm, mm EOS that
hum drum life all of a sudden becomes, ‘I don’t know if I can put up
with that’, you know, EOS yeah EOS do you know what I mean because EOS
mm EOS there’s a bit of excitement over there and I think, even in a-
a marriage where it’s hum-drum like that EOS you still need a bit of
excitement in some way or another EOS yeah EOS to keep it going EOS
but, don’t you think nowadays, you know, w- we’re a little bit more
educated about, erm, relationships, and about keeping relationships
going, you know, as much as you know, I would- I would stand up to any
young girl and say, ‘you do not put up with that in a relationship’, I
would- I would stand up to them and say, ‘if you want a relationship
to stay together, you need to still go out together, you still need to
have a laugh together if y- you know, and put them into your marriage,
or else, you know, that’s the way marriages go, they fail’ EOS but at
the end of the day it’s still how can you always fit it in, because,
when you’re both working y- you know what I mean, when you buy- I
think if you get married and you buy a property EOS yeah EOS ninety
percent of your time goes towards your home, working for your home,
EOS and that is sometimes, is that- like I say, we’re getting too
materialistic in a lot of things EOS yeah EOS so, instead of, like you
say, keeping the excitement and everything in your marriage EOS mm EOS
things tend to go materialistic, ‘oh, we want this for the home and
ooh, have you seen that over, ooh yeah, we’ll get one of them big
massive screen tellys and’ EOS yeah EOS and so all your time is
getting the money together for all these little things EOS yeah EOS
and then that that takes away from your personal relationship EOS
don’t- don’t you think EOS it’s about a collection of things round you
EOS don’t you think it’s more a case of you know, ‘I can’t leave this
set up because I’ve got- I’ve still got payments left on me car’ EOS
‘or I’ve still-’ do you know what- I know it sounds sad EOS yeah EOS
and it really does sound sad, but, I- I- I’ve gotta hand- hold me hand
up, I’ve done that in the past, you know, thinking, ‘oh I can’t- can’t
leave him this week, you know, I’ve still got payments left on me car’
and EOS payments left on me car, oh my God, I suppose EOS but I think
it’s not all negative because I look at me stepson’s relationship and
I think men are much more hands on with regard to children these days-
EOS ah yeah that is something that has- that’s changed EOS cause they
really lost out, men lost out didn’t they in the past EOS I don’t
think they lost out, I don’t think they wanted to be bothered, to be
truthful with you EOS yeah EOS cause it was- I still remember Granddad
**anon**, he used to go to work, come home and sit in the corner with
his paper and he didn’t like a lot of mither off EOS oh God no EOS
kids, do you know, it was- that was his routine EOS yeah, it was,
‘shh, don’t go in there, me Granddad’s in there’ EOS yeah EOS yeah EOS
and it’s like whatsits Dad, his a- his attitude was, ‘I go out to work
it’s my house I pay the bills and I’ll watch what I want on telly’ I
mean, I’ve seen him come in switch- she’s been sat there EOS telly
goes over she goes to- EOS you’re joking EOS no, I’m not joking, like,
that is the God’s honest truth EOS switches the telly over? EOS yeah
EOS he’d been out in the pub, he’s come in EOS yeah EOS she’s in the
middle of a film, EOS and he just- EOS he just turned it- I was sat
with her and I c- turned it over, and she went, ‘I was watching that’,
‘I pay the bills in this house, I’m the one that goes out to work,
I’ll watch what I want’ I was fuming EOS there was steam coming out me
ears EOS I come, ‘I’ve got to go now’ EOS and I just walked out and
I’m like this EOS oh no EOS it was- it was horrendous EOS no EOS and
it was so funny cos they came to our house and erm, **anon** asked,
‘erm, do you want a brew’ this that, ‘erm, yeah, yeah, go on, I’ll
have a can, yeah, yeah, yeah’ and he goes erm, ‘ooh erm, such-and-
such-a-body’s on’ and he turned the telly over, and he goes, ‘ooh,
it’s good this, it’s good match this’ and I just got the remote, I
come ‘I pay the bills in here, we don’t watch sport in this house’ EOS
and he walked, I thought there’s no way you can do that in your home,
you’re not doing it in mine EOS ahh EOS do you know what I mean, and
they went they left- EOS do you know, honestly EOS but- but EOS and
you probably caused a big bloody argument through that EOS argument,
but that’s what I’m saying, that was the way then EOS yeah EOS the
women stayed at home, they cleaned the house, they looked after the
children, the men went to work, had a pint, come home, tea on the
table, EOS yeah mm EOS and they didn’t want no mither EOS no EOS do
you know, mm, and that was the routine EOS mm EOS and it was more the
women that had the social circle like I say, all the neighbours EOS
yeah EOS and everything, the men it was, down the pub EOS yeah, I
remember when we was kids, we had loads of Auntys EOS yeah EOS who
weren’t our Auntys EOS Auntys, no, no, EOS but- EOS but it was always
EOS yeah EOS Aunty **anon**, cos you didn’t go, Mrs **anon** or Mrs
**anon** EOS no EOS it was Aunty **anon**, Aunty **anon**, Aunty
**anon**, you know EOS yeah EOS they were all Aunties EOS yeah EOS mm
EOS and like I say EOS you did summet wrong, they didn’t go running
telling your Mum, you got a clip round the ear EOS mm EOS and if you
went and told your Mum, you’d get another one EOS got another one EOS
yeah, and it was ‘well, you must’ve deserved it’ EOS yeah EOS cause I
can still remember that EOS yeah EOS cause they don’t- they’re not
gonna crack you for nothing EOS no EOS and it wasn’t a whack, it was
just, like you say, a clip round the ear, ‘eh, you little bugger, what
do you think you’re doing’ EOS yeah, yeah EOS but you can’t- EOS there
was nothing abusive in it EOS no EOS it was just a case of, you know,
‘when your Mam’s not here, I’m your Mam’ EOS yeah EOS ‘you do what
you’re told’ EOS told, yeah now you can’t e- there’s no way you can do
any of that, and I tell you what an- irritates me with the grandkids,
the eldest in particular these mobile phones, EOS yeah EOS you can’t
have a decent conversation with them because it’s, ‘erm, yeah oh alri-
alright Nanna, erm, what was that, what, erm, oh alright, yeah, yeah’
EOS texting EOS and they’re like this EOS while- while they’re on EOS
so that you know they’re not listening to you EOS they’re too busy on-
EOS kids eh EOS yeah EOS on- on- on the phone- on the phone texting
EOS yeah, fingers going EOS and when they- when they’ve text me,
right, have you ever got one of these texts, and I’m going, ‘what the
what’ and I put two pairs of glasses on and I still don’t understand
it and it’s all text writing EOS code code, yeah EOS all text writing,
and I wonder, you know like y- y- everything evolves, you know like
erm, years and years and years ago they used to speak all drawn out
and everything EOS yeah EOS and like you say, we’ve shortened it, do
you think we’ll end up writing like they text now in years to come EOS
we may well do, we may well do EOS do you know another- another change
EOS yeah and- well, I mean things evolve don’t they EOS yeah because
I’ve- I said to someone, no so long ago, I says EOS the way they used
to talk, ‘thou shalt do’ you know EOS yeah EOS years ago, the ways
they used to write and do that EOS yeah EOS I says, and then it all
got changed to more a less speaking- writing how you speak, EOS yeah
EOS and now, is it gonna be, you’re writing how you text EOS well it
is, it is, I mean y- w- EOS do you know, and so that could be another
EOS when y- you email people now, you shorten everything EOS yeah EOS
I mean I’ve learned a few of them, like, I mean, L-O-L is ‘laugh out
loud’ EOS is it? I thought it was ‘lots of love’ EOS ha, ha, ha, no,
‘mwah’ is a kiss M-W-A-H, mwah like that EOS right EOS but the best
one that I’ve learnt that use quite a lot actually, is P- M-L, in
capitals, EOS what’s that? EOS pissed meself laughing EOS ooh but
that’s it, I j- I thought L-O-L was ‘lots of love’ because a lot of
people do that at the end of a text, ‘right, going now, bye, L-O-L’,
so I thought it was ‘lots of love’, erm, and I- if- I’ve started doing
little bits like, EOS if I’m texting **anon**, erm, ‘are you on your
way’ and I’ll put, just an ‘R’, then a ‘U’ EOS yeah EOS do you know
like, EOS yeah EOS that- little things like that, but I don’t know all
the others that they do EOS no, well we’ll have to learn because I
mean- it- EOS but that’s what I’m saying EOS it’s so- so much quicker,
when you’re- you know, you’re emailing somebody EOS yeah, yeah, but
that’s what I’m saying, I think this EOS right EOS is gonna change the
whole thing again EOS yeah EOS because it’s all computers, it’s all
erm, mobile phones and texting EOS yeah EOS so I do think in the next
ten years, it’s all gonna change again and, people are gonna be
writing like- it’s like a shorthand isn’t it, really, EOS yeah EOS
instead of- cos I know our **anon** says, ‘it takes you bleeding ages
to text me back’ EOS because I do the whole thing, you know EOS ‘and’
and ‘the’ and everything is wrote, you know, EOS yeah EOS properly,
and she’s there going, ‘for God’s sake’, I says, EOS ‘yeah, but I’m
not used to texting’, I’m not used to typing, so it takes me ten
minutes EOS yeah EOS to find the letter and the key that I want EOS mm
EOS do you know what I mean, I’m getting a bit quicker now but at
first I’d g- I’d get bored before I got to the end of what I was
trying to say EOS do you know EOS well I was on- on the laptop, erm,
last week it was, erm and I’m typing away, and next thing I get
‘beep’, I thought, ‘who is- who’s this?’ this bloke, erm, is- is
talking to m- talking to me, so I’m texting him back, no, talking to
him back, then next thing, you know, you get your camera comes up, so
he get the web- webcam come up, cos my name’s Son **anon** he thought
he was talking to a fella EOS oh right EOS this twenty year old bloke
in erm, Portugal wi- with the same last name as me EOS right EOS so I
mean, we had a right conversation cos he- he does the surfing, just
West of Lagos, where I’ve been out to a lo- loada times, so the next
time I going over, I’m going to see him for a drink, now that’s the
future EOS do you know- EOS that is the future EOS that’s how you pick
a fella up EOS it is EOS I- EOS honest to God I- I wouldn’t know how
to do that, in fact, a few times erm, I’ve- when I was going to excuse
me, ‘Sign’ **anon** the art EOS yeah, yeah EOS a few of them said,
‘ooh, we go on these chat-room things and everything’ EOS oh yeah EOS
‘and we have a right laugh, and I met a few people’, I says, ‘oh
right’, well the first thing, I we- I went into hysterics, cos I says,
‘ooh, what is it, I’ll have a go at that’ she goes, ‘ooh, it’s called
plenty of fish’, well EOS I set off laughing, I says ‘it’s called
what?’, she says, ‘plenty of fish’ EOS she says, ‘the only trouble is’
she says, ‘you have to be careful cos some of them are only after one
thing’ I says, ‘well do you think that could be because of the name of
the site?’ EOS you know, ‘plenty of fish’, she says, ‘I never thought
of that’, well I was- I nearly choked laughing EOS right, but each
time I try to get onto these things EOS yeah EOS I can’t do it EOS
can’t you? EOS no EOS oh, I’ll show you EOS but I must do something
because I keep getting things saying EOS ‘we’ve found your perfect
match’ or ‘somebody wants to get in touch with you but when I try to
go back on it, you know, I’ll press it on me emails to go EOS yeah EOS
and I still get lost and I don’t know what I’m doing and I think, ‘oh,
sack it’ and it’s frustrating EOS yeah EOS you know, so I don’t
bother, I just play solitaire on the computer EOS I’m just- EOS and
I’ll sit- EOS I’m just naïve me, I ge- I got one called erm, **anon**
so I thought, ooh, I’ll, you know- EOS what, **anon** EOS **anon**
it’s called- EOS is that- did you send me something about that? EOS
don’t think so EOS oh, go on EOS but I mean, it said like, join this,
I’m thinking, ‘yeah, go on then’ I’m thinking it’s like facebook you
know, a social networking site, so I goes on, next thing, ‘beep’, th-
this fella, ‘oh hello Sonia **anon**, I really like your photo, can I
see your- your album’ well I’m taking the piss, so I’ve put my
photograph on erm, and I hate being judged by me- me age, so instead
of putting I was born in **anon**, I put I was born in nineteen
sixteen, so, my photo album’s called, ‘look at me, I’m ninety three’
EOS so, so, that’s got this fella, you know, ‘can I have a look at
your album’, ‘what for?’, ‘please let me have a look at your album’,
‘oh, alright then’, so it’s- next thing, I’ve got fifteen fellas,
throughout the globe, one- one was in China, one was in Italy,
somewhere, one- and they’re all talking, and typing furiously away,
‘what do you wanna look at me photos for, don’t you know I’m ninety
three’ but that w- that is a completely dodgy site, and I’m telling
you now I was talking t- I’m just naïve me, so I’m talking to this
fella, from erm, where was he from? Stafford, so I’m saying, ‘ooh, w-
what’s the weather like in Stafford’, ‘oh, it’s alright, you know’,
‘what you up to today?’, ‘oh, well I- I drive erm, a wagon for a
living’, I went, ‘oh, do you, do you get up- do you get up to
Manchester often?’, ‘ooh yeah, I’m in Trafford Park erm, all the time,
next time I come up I’ll give you a call’ I went, ‘ooh right, alright
fine’ next thing, ‘erm, so what’s your number?’, ‘erm, well I won’t
give you me number now, erm’, ‘well I’m coming up to Trafford Park
next week’ EOS ‘erm, will you have sex’ ‘with me in me cab’ EOS what?
EOS I went EOS oh my God EOS ‘I thought you were gonna ask me for a
coffee EOS come on Sonia **anon**, you’re ninety-three **anon**
honestly EOS ninety EOS honestly EOS is that what they said? EOS yeah,
honestly, I just went I’ll block that one off, so I- I’ve decided to
knock that one on the head cos EOS aaah EOS no, seriously, totally, I
mean- and, erm, you know, they want to know if you’ve got a webcam,
and will you do this for them, and will you do that for them EOS oh
no, no, no, no EOS and again, just go to the frigging place in
Manchester where the girls get paid for a living you know EOS yeah EOS
th- there are places where you can go, ‘will you shag me in me cab in
Trafford Park?’ I don’t think so EOS eh EOS I’ll need a- I’ll need a
curry and a bottle of wine before EOS I need a four p- I- I need a
four-poster at least EOS oh God, that- EOS that EOS I’d a died if
that- EOS I’d a been, ‘ooh, ooh, ooh’ EOS **anon** come and sort this
out for me EOS I’m sure you could’ve thought of some very choice words
EOS I probably would’ve done yeah EOS I’d’ve probably got barred off
the internet for using bad language EOS a big red flashing thing you
know EOS oh EOS you can’t say that on this- on this site EOS site, I
know, ah no oh I’ve never come across anything- I’ve never been- I
never get into anything- I never get far enough into it to even have a
conversation with normal people never mind EOS find a site like that,
so I’ve ne- l- like I say I’ve tried a few times, and never got on
properly at anytime EOS mm EOS anytime at all so I just- I just sack
it now, in fact, I went on me emails the other day and there was
about- I had fifty nine messages, and I bet twenty of them was from
them saying they’ve found a perfect partner EOS off different things
that I’ve tried to get on EOS right EOS and couldn’t EOS right EOS
but, they’ve got me name and email address so they just send me all
these things and I s- I think EOS mm EOS it’s no use having him there,
I’m here, I don’t know how to get to him EOS ah EOS so I just leave
it, just sack it EOS what, would you go for a coffee in Manchester?
EOS erm, no way but it’s erm, it is it is crazy, and I say to
**anon**, ‘why don’t you get on?’, cos I want her to keep up with her
email and keep in touch with her friends EOS yeah EOS and she goes,
‘I’m on a bleeding computer all day, I’m not getting on it again’ and
she won’t EOS yeah EOS sh- you know, it- in fact she lost her email
address because it had been that long EOS right EOS since she’s been
on it, and the- after a while, I didn’t realise, our **anon** says,
‘oh yeah, if you’ve not used your email address for a long time they
squash it and you have to start up again’ EOS mm EOS ooh I didn’t know
that EOS she says, cos it happened to her so I said, ‘oh right’, so
erm, w- she had to set up a- well I did it for her, I sound dead
clever now don’t I EOS I did it for her, I sorted it out, and got her
back on but erm, she still doesn’t go on it much, and I mean it would
benefit her EOS hmm EOS with her being deaf EOS yeah EOS you know, EOS
yeah EOS I mean she only texts anyway when she uses her phone, what a
performance I’ve had with that she went to erm, Salford to get a new
phone and I could see people looking at us, and some of them
tittering, she says, ‘but I need a phone’ she says, ‘that has got a
good vibrator on it’ EOS ca- EOS and we’re in the middle on this shop
and I’m thinking, ‘oh God’, she says, ‘because the last phone I got’
she says, ‘the vibration was no good, I couldn’t feel it’ she says,
erm, ‘and I was missing all me calls’ EOS ah no EOS so I’m there
saying, ‘look, she’s deaf, she needs a phone with a decent vibration
on it so that when it’s in her back pocket she can feel it’ EOS yeah
EOS I says, ‘the other phone that she got she ended up swapping
because it was no good to her, she was missing everything’ ‘right,
okay’, and she wanted one with a good camera on it, and we were going
through anyway- EOS wouldn’t you think though, that, you know, compa-
phone companies w- would make phones specifically for deaf people EOS
I know well that’s- EOS as a communication device I mean EOS yeah EOS
you know EOS that’s- that’s one thing that they are lacking in EOS
right EOS because, she has- EOS right EOS sh- when we go, we don’t go
for a new phone and we’re in and out in a- in an hour EOS mm EOS we
can be in there two or three hours EOS yeah EOS because she’s there
and they’re putting- they ringing all these phones and she’s holding
them trying to say EOS yeah EOS ‘no, that’s no good, that’s no good’,
you know, and I think- and I don’t- the worst thing is, she takes me
with her, and I don’t know the first thing EOS about phones so I’m
neither use nor ornament EOS yeah EOS so she gets this phone home it
was spent more time at home than it did with her because the battery
was going flat all the time, she was charging it up every other day
and what else, there was a f- there was about three things wrong with
it so we checked the agreement and it says you can change it- you can
cancel it within seven days, so she said, ‘right’, so she types this
letter out at work stops off at Salford, she says, ‘right, I don’t
want this anymore’ ‘cancelling me contract’ they said, ‘you can’t do
this- that’ she says, ‘yeah, oh yes I can’, ‘oh, you’ve got to do it
in writing’, she goes, ‘there it is, copy for you, copy for me’, ‘no
you’ve got to send it to ‘ead o- head office’ and all this that and
the other so she had a big row with them she- she left the phone on
the desk, they says, ‘no, no, you can’t leave it here’, she says,
‘yes, I can I’m leaving it, I’m cancelling everything’, and she went
out the shop shouting, EOS ‘you’re all mad if you get a phone from
here’ EOS oh God EOS I thought- EOS I can just see her doing that and
all EOS I know, she’s dead erm, she’s dead bolshy isn’t she EOS I
thought, I’m glad I wasn’t with her, but anyway, they’ve sent her a
letter back saying, yes, she can cancel the contract, but she’s got to
pick the phone up, and she’s gotta ring them and then they’ve got to
arrange to pick it up and all this that and the other, I thought EOS
yeah EOS why not just give it back to the shop EOS yeah EOS and leave
it at that, so that’s what- EOS but I bet- did she pick it up from the
shop? EOS yeah EOS right EOS yeah EOS cause the- EOS she went in the
shop and got it from the shop, so why not just take it back to the
shop EOS yeah yeah EOS so, but that’s what she’s got to do, so that’s
what I’ll have to do later on, erm, EOS go and see my mate down there,
**anon** EOS she’s got one now EOS has she? That’s a good’n? EOS well,
I- don’t ask me, it’s- it’s got all little things on it that she
likes, it’s a touch phone, an iphone it is EOS oooh, has she got an
iphone? EOS yeah, she’s got an iphone, so she’s quite happy with that
EOS me Mum wants one of them EOS yeah EOS erm, and it’s- sh- it’s not
the latest one, she says, ‘I don’t want the latest one Mam, because,
it’s only just come out and then they’ll find out all the problems and
this, that and the other with it’ EOS yeah, yeah EOS she says, ‘so
I’ll wait a- a bit and then I might in two years I’ll update it again’
EOS mm EOS she says, ‘but I’m happy with this one now and it does this
and it does-’ oh, she spends hours messing about, but, in saying about
the- the computer EOS mm EOS that’s got it in, so she gets her emails
through that anyway EOS yeah, yeah EOS so- cos she’s been saying to
me, ‘ooh, I got a birthday card off **anon** and erm, I’ve got, erm,
one off-’ who er- can’t remember who else, but she got birthday cards
sent to her over the erm EOS yeah EOS erm, internet on her facebook
and that EOS yeah EOS so she was quite chuffed about that so, EOS yeah
EOS she’s erm, yeah she’s- she makes me laugh though s- EOS but them-
them iphones, I mean, you know that phone, that flip phone, I bought
me and me Mum one and it must be five years ago EOS cause I think it
was the Christmas of- that I bought it her and she’s had it five
years, well sh- she’s since the contract’s run out, she’s got- put it
on pay as you go but she’s got this new mega deal something through
Virgin or whatever for her phone, so what she wants to do is unlock
this phone that I got her five years ago erm so that she can have it
on this Virgin, but six months ago she was moaning and moaning and
moaning she wanted an iphone, I’m saying, ‘Mam, you can’t even
bleeding text, what do you want an iphone for?’ she’s like, ‘well
**anon** such-and-such-a- body’s got one, and we were in a restaurant
and I- and me and your Dad, we were chatting away, and we said, erm,
yeah, oh yes, we still live in Salford, and I told her me address, and
I’m not kidding you, she turned her phone round, and there was our
front door, on her phone- on her phone- I- my front door was on her
phone’ and I went, ‘yeah, well it’ll be an iphone, and they’ve got
satellite navigation and all that’, ‘well, I want one’ EOS I said,
‘but you still don’t know how to text’ EOS to text, yeah EOS ‘I’ll
learn’ EOS yeah EOS that’s it, th- th- they are good, if you’re into
gadgets EOS mmhmm EOS but I’m not into gadgets, I can’t- one- EOS I
think they’ve gotta be something that you’re gonna use isn’t it EOS
yeah, EOS you know EOS me eyes are bad, and, even my phone I’ve got
now EOS mm EOS I’m like this, and I’m putting two pairs of glasses on
reading it, so to start messing about and trying to learn EOS yeah EOS
how to do this, that and the other on a phone, that- I’m gonna
struggle to see anyway EOS yeah EOS it doesn’t seem worth it to me, as
long as I can text and phone, that’s all I’m bothered about EOS yeah
EOS I mean I can’t even use the camera properly on this or- or the,
erm, video thing EOS mm EOS I c- I- it’s- you can change the length of
time EOS yeah EOS I still can’t do it I take a picture, it’s funny, I
take a picture like that, and I press the button and I go like that to
look at it, and then it’ll go ‘click’ EOS but I’ve moved- it’s like a
delayed thing on it EOS yeah, yeah EOS mm EOS and I don’t know how to
get it off EOS right EOS so I can’t even take a proper picture when I
want to, it ends up something else cos I’ve moved the- EOS did you get
a disc with it? EOS probably, but I never use that either I never- I
never put them in to see- EOS I- all- all I’m saying is, I mean I’m-
I’m no techy at all, but, whenever I’ve got anything, like I’ve got a
camera, or satnav or, you get a disc with it, and then, when you’ve
got the time, and, you know me, I never- I never even look at a recipe
I just think I can cook, throw it all in together, but I- I’ll be
thinking to meself, ‘ooh, I don’t know how to use that video bit on me
camera’ EOS yeah EOS but all I’ll do is either go on the computer or
go on the little pamphlet, and they’re dead easy to use nowadays EOS
yeah EOS it’s just having the patience to sit down EOS down EOS and-
and actually read through it EOS and actu- read through it, yeah EOS
cause they are easy, you know, everything’s like user friendly these
days, they’re not like they used to be, cos I- you know, manuals used
to be unless you had a degree EOS you couldn’t bloody read it, EOS
under- I know EOS never mind understand what was on them EOS I g- I
always go, ‘what does that mean?’ , ‘what’s that word there, what does
it mean?’ EOS yeah EOS oh God, but that’s it, it takes me that long to
read summet I’ve got fed up with it EOS but I think you get frightened
of things, and I think you’re just- you have like a- a mental blinker
EOS yeah EOS and you think, ‘I’m just ne- I’m not gonna be able to use
that’ erm, because me Dad’s not got a mobile phone, and me Mum’s been
saying, ‘well, you know, when I get me iphone, your Dad can have my-
my old one’ erm, and I say, ‘well I’ll be able to teach him how to use
it’ cos I am good at showing people what EOS yeah EOS you know, how to
use thing- things, but you know, I think sometimes you just get mental
block where you think, ‘I’m never gonna be able to do it’, so you’re
preventing yourself from- from- from learning EOS yeah EOS erm, in a
way EOS I know, I m- that is- that is true, it’s like me, I was scared
of the laptop, I was scared to death breaking it EOS right, pressing
the wrong thing? EOS yeah, and, I think that came from when I was
working and I was ill and I was in the office this time and they said,
‘oh, just put these facts and figures in’ I says, ‘oh I don’t know
anything’, ‘oh, we’ll show you’, ‘I- I’m scared of losing the data’,
‘you can’t lose the data’, fine, fair enough, and they showed me how
to do this, and I was doing it for weeks, and then I got cocky,
starting- trying to play about with it EOS mm EOS and the next minute
it all went off and I says, ‘ooh, there’s summet- ooh’ I says, ‘you
said I can’t lose this data didn’t you’, ‘yeah’, ‘oh, well, come and
sort it out then, cos it’s all gone black’ and the next minute he
goes, ‘I don’t believe it Harriet **anon** you’ve lost the data’ EOS I
says, ‘you told me I couldn’t do that’ I says, ‘so it’s your fault,
it’s not mine’ EOS there’s o- there’s only one person who could’ve
lost the data and it was you EOS yeah, it was, and the thing was I was
dead worried but, because he’d said, ‘oh no, you’re alright, it- you
can’t lose it’ EOS yeah EOS I got cocky and I thought, ‘ooh, well I
can’t do any damage’, so you start messing round- and he’d says to me
EOS ‘just have a go, keep playing with it and learning, and you’ll
become more confident’, so I did EOS yeah EOS and then I lost
everything EOS and he said, ‘no, just keep to what you was doing
before, just put the data in’, ‘right’ but, that’s why when I got mine
it was, hmm EOS yeah EOS you know, viruses, all I heard about was
virus- say I put a virus in it, I don’t know how you- EOS mm EOS I
could put a virus in it but and so it was touching the odd key like
that, ‘ooh what’s happened, what-’ and that’s all you got out of me
for the first month, ‘ooh, what’s happened, what’ve I done, what’ve I
done’ but you need to learn what the keys do and what they don’t do
EOS course you do, yeah EOS and that was my problem, our **anon** was
saying to me ages ago, he’s texting me, you know, when he- and he-
he’s on facebook and he’s- EOS yeah EOS leaving me a message and- and
the name pops up, and then you type in there and I thought EOS ‘ooh
right’, so I typed some- he says, ‘just type in at the bottom’ so I
just typed in at the bottom and then I thought, ‘right, now what do I
do with it?’ and, I clicked on it and it went off, and I did this,
that and in the end I went a- the long way round EOS mm EOS to text
him what I’d just wrote in that square cos I couldn’t send it to him,
I didn’t know how to send it EOS yeah EOS and then, who was it
**anon**, granddaughter, EOS just press the return key EOS yeah, ‘you
press that Nanna’ ‘right, okay’, but I was coming out of that EOS yeah
EOS getting his name up and going the long way round because I didn’t
know how to send EOS yeah EOS in that, it- and, it- unless you know
what all the keys do EOS mm EOS y- EOS and that’s e- exactly right y-
you know, a- and everybody, everybody, ah kid, is exactly the same,
you know, when you first look at computer, unless you’ve been shown
what to do, how are you supposed to know? EOS yeah, the best of it is
I went to erm, the erm, oh what’s it called EOS in Eccles and they
were doing computer courses for free EOS oh yeah EOS and if you went
regular and you passed through the course, they’d give you a computer,
wh- you know EOS right EOS and you could keep it for so long and then
pay fifty pound for it, something like that EOS right EOS I thought,
‘ooh, I’ll get a computer’ and, I was going there learning and I h- I
had a file and me discs and everything and I started to learn a bit
EOS yeah EOS but then I think she was off ill and I’d gone all the way
to Eccles a couple of weeks, and nobody had bothered ringing me and
kept saying, ‘ooh, she’s not here this week, she’s not come in’, ‘oh,
she’s not’ and in the end I just sacked it EOS yeah EOS otherwise- but
thinking about it, I only found all that information in the disc when
was it, was it yesterday or the day before when I was looking for
something for **anon** EOS mm EOS so I might get that out and put it
in and start EOS yeah EOS trying to learn a bit more EOS yeah EOS but
like I say, I’m sure it has the keyboard EOS you see, it’s- EOS it- on
it EOS it’s amazing though I mean how quickly things change, I mean I
remember doing erm, a computer course it’s not ten years ago, at night
school, erm, cos you know our- our **anon** did computers at- at
college and that, and I thought, ‘we’ve got a bloody big computer in
there and you know, when I’m on me day off it’s sat there doing
nothing, I may as well learn how to use it’ EOS yeah EOS so I went on
a computer course and one of the first things they showed me how to
do, erm, was put something on a floppy disc, we don’t use floppy discs
anymore, who uses floppy discs now EOS what’s a floppy disc? EOS it’s
a small disc EOS like erm- like a CD? EOS yeah, yeah EOS I thought
they- I thought EOS no, no, no, no, no, it’s not, what am I talking
about, it- they used to be like in a square EOS that’s what I’ve got
EOS yeah, but nobody uses them these days EOS you know from my
computer course, that’s what it is EOS they use them little I’ve got
one, dongle thingies, it’s not a dongle EOS you put it in the side of
the computer and you save it on to- on to that EOS memory stick EOS a
memory stick, yeah, that’s it, that’s what they’re called EOS oh right
EOS but that- that wasn’t ten years ago, and yet things have changed
already EOS that’s what I’m saying, the technology nowadays is
changing that fast EOS yeah EOS people who are a bit slow, it’s very
hard EOS to catch up EOS do you know what I mean? I- probably, I’ll
get dead good, on the computer and the laptop, and then they’ll go and
change it to something else and I’ll have to start from scratch, and
it’s I- you give up in the end, I- I do EOS I think the- the- I think
the- there’ll always be a qwerty keyboard, there’ll always be a qwerty
keyboard, on what- on whatever technology that you’re gonna use, cos
that’s our form of communication in the West EOS eh well, we’ll see
EOS so you’ll be right EOS yeah, like I say, I’m gonna keep trying and
erm, so that floppy disc EOS yeah EOS what makes me laugh, is why do
they call it floppy cos it’s as stiff as a board EOS why if- if- if
I’ve got one of them would I be able to put it in my computer, it is a
computer, it’s not a- a laptop EOS yeah EOS would I? EOS yeah EOS
right, cos I might have a go at that EOS mm EOS and erm, try and learn
a bit more we even went, me and our **anon**, he says erm, ‘oh,
there’s a computer course starting’ so being, he says, ‘right’ I says,
‘I’ll come with you’ he asks me, I says ‘yeah, okay, I’ll come with
you’, and it was in **anon** EOS oh yeah EOS so I got us on, we went
down we was- th- there was only me and him there and the tutor and, we
did this course, then the week after, it was really bad storms, I
think it was advised, if you didn’t have to go out, don’t go out EOS
yeah EOS so I says, ‘we’re not going **anon**, I’m not going in this,
it’s really too bad, and I don’t want you driving up here’, ‘right,
okay’, so the week after that, we went again, ‘oh, they’ve cancelled
it’, you know, ‘not enough people turned up’ EOS yeah EOS so, EOS yeah
EOS I didn’t even do that, cos a lot of people now have- are learning
off their kids EOS yeah EOS because the kids are doing it in school
now EOS mm EOS the kids are showing the parents how to use a computer
EOS well I know our **anon** erm, give me a disc, ooh, I’m ashamed to
say, God knows where it is, but I think it- think it was called ECDL,
but that was literally, you taught yourself how to use a computer from
the CD, you just loaded the CD, and then it, you know, talked you how
to go through what to do, and I thought, ‘ooh, how fantastic’, but,
they’re something like seventy pound I think EOS mm EOS she got it
because of- she got it through work, erm, so they wanna be giving
them- them out in erm, these lessons and say like, well do this in- in
lesson and then EOS well, you’ll have to find that EOS yeah EOS cause
that might do me EOS mm EOS that might help me EOS yeah, and it’s not
so much- I mean I’m pretty computer literate but sometimes it’s the
language they use EOS yeah EOS you know, that EOS that is confusing
cos they just think, ‘upload’, ‘upl- what does up- upload mean?’ EOS
upload mean? Yeah, I’m like that EOS yeah EOS cause I- I d- I don’t
know how to- you can put things on a disc can’t you? you know, if you
wanted erm, say a song EOS yeah EOS and you put a disc in and you
could b- EOS rip and burn, EOS yeah EOS yeah EOS you can do that, or,
any information you can put on a disc, I can’t do things like that, I
don’t know h- I’ve got the facility EOS yeah, within your computer EOS
but, I don’t know how to do it EOS yeah EOS and that’s something I
would like to do, cos I’d like to be able to download photographs EOS
mm EOS and you know, even, you know, different things EOS mm EOS I’d
love to be able to do that EOS mm EOS but I don’t know how to do that
EOS right, you see that’s dead, dead easy, I’d be able to show you
that EOS yeah EOS erm, but I tell you on- one good tip, that somebody
told me years ago, erm, on a computer is, you know all you get- get a
question mark, wherever you are, there’s that, either question mark or
a help EOS just click on that if y- if you’re stuck on it and
somewhere it’ll explain how to do what you want to do, cos what I tend
to do is I always have a- like a pad at the side of the computer and
then, whatever it tells me to do, I’ll write it down, and some of the
things are so easy, it’s like, ‘click on start, click on programs,
click on this, click on that, click on that, click on that, right,
change that to a ‘no’, you’re sorted’ EOS what it is- EOS and I’ll
never remember it, like EOS yeah EOS the following day, once I’ve
slept, that’s it, but once it’s written down, it’s written out,
‘start, de, programs, blah, blah, blah’ EOS yeah, but what it is,
because it’s a computer, and it’s a complicated piece of equipment,
you look at it, and you go, ‘ooh, I don’t know how to do this’, ‘ooh,
I can I-’ because you think it’s gonna be complicated EOS yeah, yeah
EOS and then when someone shows you, you go, ‘oh, is that it’ and EOS
yeah, yeah EOS you’re dead surprised EOS yeah EOS it’s so simple EOS
yeah EOS but, because you’re looking at this equipment and you’re
thinking, ‘it must be complicated’ EOS like you say, you’re mind goes
blank, EOS mm EOS it’s like a mental block EOS yeah EOS and you don’t
see the simple little things that come up that say, ‘just press here’,
or ‘just do thi-’ EOS mm EOS y- it- you don’t see it, it’s like a
mental blindness cos y- you panic EOS yeah, yeah EOS you don’t see it
EOS you do, you get blinkered, what I- what I used- when I was
training, what I used to do with anyone in- in my office was say,
right, there’s your pad, and I mean them days we used to call them an
idiot guide, you’re not allowed to do that anymore, erm, but, say for
example it was like, you know, rip and burn, like, ‘click on that,
click on that, click on that, click on that’ right, now write it down,
in those short phrases, not, ‘put your disc in this’, just ‘click,
click, click, click’ like a- a small, short, a reminder, EOS yeah EOS
erm, and that’s it, right, you put that away, don’t look at it, right,
now you’ve not done rip and burning for six months, right, get your
idiot guide, get it out, ‘oh yeah’, click, click, click, click, click,
EOS click, click, click, EOS and it’s easy then EOS yeah EOS it
becomes dead easy, and y’kn- y- th- it- it takes away the fear,
because it’ll be something, you know, it- and I don’t care who you
are, however brainy you are that you’ll- you’ll just forget EOS yeah
EOS what do I go into for that EOS to for that, yeah EOS erm, and it-
it’s just there for you EOS yeah I’ll have to get stuck in me and erm,
try a bit harder, get to know everything properly EOS I know EOS right
how are we doing? EOS I think that’s alright that, yep, I was just
letting you finish off, great EOS good, cos I’m bursting for a pee EOS
are you EOS right one sec, EOS can I- EOS get this going again, can
you just talk for me EOS one, two- EOS oh hang on EOS oh right yeah cos I was going to say one of the other bits of the interview is
just about, kind of what you do for a living and stuff so I mean EOS
well not a lot at the moment EOS right that is okay so just feel free
to- chat away when you- EOS er the crazy thing is, is if you weren't
here we'd be chatting away like anything it's yeah EOS yeah just yeah
just normally yeah EOS oh dear EOS well tell us about erm where you
live, I mean you can- you can talk to me kind of thing while I’m doing
it EOS mm EOS ah EOS you don't- but I’m not allowed to start you know
speak back to you kind of thing but tell- you know tell us about that
first if you want, EOS well where I live’s in the er- the regeneration
area, because they’re ripping Salford apart at the moment so erm by
two-thousand eleven where I live will be gone EOS er which is a- a
multi-story block which is er w- I should think will be all the better
for it EOS mm EOS you know it will be completely gone EOS yeah
although some of them they’re doing up now EOS yeah, yeah EOS aren't
they them ones that EOS yeah it's to save money EOS yeah advertising
them as absolutely super-duper gorgeous apartments aren't they EOS
yeah, well it’s just counc- EOS it's just like right behind Salford
precinct EOS yeah council slums EOS revamped council slum EOS yeah,
because I’ve just moved like back into like sort of ‘Salford’ Salford,
cos I was in **anon** erm, and then before that I was- I was in
**anon** with me mum so probably not far from where you are near
**anon**, erm and before that I used to live, like down at the bottom,
didn’t I? EOS yeah EOS in like the proper old terraces, like I had one
of them, erm and we sort of did all that up and then, just
relationship came to an end and I moved back with me mum but did a lot
of work on that house really EOS yeah I did EOS s- yeah EOS you did
yeah , I was the painter EOS yeah EOS and they did all the hard labour
EOS yeah EOS or rather you did EOS but- EOS very hard labour EOS yeah,
this one’s getting there now isn't it- your school’s gone now thought
hasn’t it, that- EOS that’s- EOS cos your school used to be there EOS
that went ages ago that’s a block of flats now yeah EOS mm EOS yeah
they did erm- when I was a kid there was a group called the Spinners,
and er there’s a song called Dirty Old Town that’s about Salford EOS
right EOS and they actually sang it and got filmed on the bridge that
was over the road when we were at school EOS oh yeah EOS yeah EOS cos
you used to go over the bridge to the playground or something EOS
yeah, yeah the school was on one side and the playground was on the
other and there was a bridge over the road EOS hm EOS yeah and they-
they actually recorded it and did a video on the ‘Dirty Old Town’,
you’ll want to look that up if you’re thinking about Salford that song
EOS yeah EOS it’s about all the gas works and all that, that like it
was when I was a kid EOS god so what is that- see and I was born at
**anon** hospital you was born at home though, weren’t you? EOS yeah,
yeah **anon** in the old **anon** yeah EOS put in a drawer and shoved
under the table EOS no it’s completely- I mean it- EOS it’s absolutely
completely different now I mean, it- it’s like when you and **anon**
were little wasn't so very different but I think computers have made a
huge difference to the kids EOS mm, yeah EOS I mean cos **anon** now
at thirteen I mean EOS yeah, it’s just that- EOS that- that’s- EOS
that’s me half brother, it’s just Xbox, Xbox, Xbox twenty-four seven
EOS yeah that’s really so- that’s all- everything else is just boring
isn't it you know EOS yeah, yeah EOS and er he is- he’s sheltered as
well because he’s- he’s the only child with his mum EOS mm EOS mm and
er EOS and they live down in **anon** don't they EOS yeah EOS cos she
moved for work so, EOS and his nana when he comes staying up here, she
only ever had two girls so EOS yeah EOS she’s scared of anything that
a boy would do isn't she- she can EOS yeah boys do yeah EOS yeah, EOS
‘oh you can't do that’ EOS ‘come and dress you doll in front of the
Xbox’ you know EOS yeah, I think that’s why she had that rag-doll sat
on the sofa EOS yeah EOS in the hope that he’d get into that EOS yeah,
yeah and then I go up with a gun EOS mm EOS er it is- even I notice it
now though like from when I was little like just speaking to **anon**
now he’s getting to like thirteen it’s like- EOS it is difficult to
talk to kids now isn't it? EOS yeah EOS it’s- unless you know about
computers and you’re- you’re into like the games and everything it’s
like, my boyfriend **anon** he’s like into computers but he’s
Playstation three, and me brother’s Xbox and it’s like, you know
they’re totally different things both thinks one’s better than the
other and EOS yeah EOS it’s just- it’s crazy isn't it, they just like-
EOS yeah EOS you’ll sit there and it’s like- just like playing like
with a console isn't it just thumbs and staring at the TV and EOS well
I- I try- I try to introduce him to things that EOS nothing else- they
could be EOS you do outside the house the kind of things I did when I
was a kid that EOS mm EOS you know like, catapults you know EOS mm
yeah EOS and then the air rifle and what have you, you know and- EOS
yeah EOS and just try- just trying to get him outside the house is a
struggle because it’s- it’s like- it was like when we went to that
scooter do last week, wasn't it? EOS yeah EOS we were there I mean the
vintage scooters and- and it was really good cos these are like me
cousin runs this **anon** scooter club EOS and we were thinking ‘oh
proper little lads thing’ you know, ‘bikes, he’ll love it’ or EOS yeah
what- EOS what thirteen year old lad isn't going to want to sit on a
motorbike you know but, no ‘I’m bored, can I go’ EOS yeah EOS you know
EOS he was like getting up and going for like crisps or a coke or a
burger EOS yeah EOS just to get up and do something like walking past
all these lovely scooters oblivious EOS yeah, blinkered completely
yeah EOS to the burger van at the end yeah mind you he was- he was
getting a bit better towards the end weren't he but EOS yeah only when
I told him that the boredom bit won’t work today that it’s- EOS yeah
EOS it’s a nice day we’re having a- a, you know just- just relax you
know and having a drink and sitting on the grass and you know enjoying
the day EOS yeah, mm, yeah it is but- EOS so sit down and enjoy it EOS
that’s what it is, it’s like when- when we were little we used to play
outside for hours EOS well, you had a den EOS and like it’d be dark,
yeah and we had a den but me mum would be shouting us in, you know to
come in but now you can't kick them out it’s like EOS yeah, well we
li- we lived- it was right in **anon** wasn't it and EOS mm EOS and
all the grass verge over the side where the bushes were and you and
**anon** were only toddlers and you had a den in there with the other
kids and- EOS yeah, in the trees yeah EOS yeah EOS yeah, right in
front of the EOS yeah EOS the dual carriage way EOS yeah, it’s like
that- that motorbike I got for **anon** that time and he just EOS yeah
like that quad bike thing EOS yeah well it wasn't it was a- it was a-
what’s it- wasn't it- it was a child's bike- a dirt bike for when he
was six years old EOS mm EOS and er he kept jumping off in it and
letting it go on its own EOS he used to run off around the field EOS
‘dad, I’m scared’ EOS and let the bike go EOS remember them water
pistols EOS yeah EOS yeah EOS it had like a big tank on his strapped
to his back yeah EOS yeah, and- Super Soakers he had like yeah, two
tanks on his back and he was that little the weight of the water used
to pull him over EOS yeah EOS I was on the doorstep and the- the- the
whatsit the er bus stop was on the other side and all the people
waiting at the bus stop EOS oh, yeah EOS and we were able to fire it
and we were able to soak them from our doorstep and they did not know
where it was coming from, yeah, yeah EOS yeah you could catch them
from behind yeah, through the trees and over the top EOS yeah EOS eh
EOS used to go far that EOS great example as a father EOS yeah yeah
‘move it a bit to the left son, bit to the left’ EOS yeah, yeah ‘g-
just- just get the old lady there with the bag’ EOS and then he used
to- he was- he was a little terror I mean I was EOS you were- you were
bloody worse but EOS but- but he w- well like no cos everyone’s always
like ‘oh, you were terrible, you were terrible’, **anon** let himself
out onto the flat roof and stuff didn't he EOS yeah he- he- he was on
the roof getting his toys back in EOS he was a bit more dangerous EOS
well, he’s a boy EOS yeah EOS that- that’s what boys are like isn't it
EOS yeah, true EOS you know EOS mine was all centred around jealousy
EOS yeah, right, like pushing him down the stairs in EOS yeah EOS in-
in his little- what was it called that little EOS oh was it a ty- EOS
tyke- little car was it EOS the little car- the red car with the
yellow roof EOS mm-hmm EOS yeah EOS yeah he had one of them I still
maintain he asked me to push him EOS he probably did but you still
pushed him gr- you know happily EOS yeah and he land- EOS he landed he
landed at the bottom like upside-down giggling EOS but, oh yeah and
then he got into the wrestling didn't he EOS oh EOS who was I was
telling? I think it was **anon** last week I was telling him, you know
when he went and he had- we were weren't we when he said he had like a
Hulk Hogan bandana EOS yeah had the- the big s- sponge hand yeah EOS
like, hit- Brett the Hitman's glasses EOS and the big sponge hand
wasn't it yeah EOS the big sponge hand, and he had some of the
Ultimate Warriors as well EOS oh I don’t know EOS he used- and when we
used to go to Camelot he used to always have the Ultimate Warriors EOS
face paint put on EOS yeah EOS you used to always have to tell him
what it was but, yeah and he got that big sponge finger and then we
had an argument and I broke the finger off it so EOS which he still
does not forgive you for and he’s twenty-one EOS no, yeah, yeah he
still mentions it yeah EOS oh- oh, yeah, now he’s into his cars it’s a
shame he didn’t come to that scooter thing EOS yeah EOS he would have
enjoyed that EOS yeah, yeah he’s at- he’s at erm Center Parcs isn’t
he, this weekend with his mates yeah EOS I think- yeah, we’ll have to
find a car one though cos **anon**- I think **anon** was saying he’d
have been more interested in the cars, didn't he? EOS well you- you
don’t know do you EOS mm EOS I mean I- you see a car with him and you
say ‘do you- do you- do you like that?’, ‘it’s alright’ EOS you know,
I- I don’t know whether it’s just that- that thirteen year old
grunting stage that he’s at you know that- EOS yeah, yeah EOS cos he
was, cos we were like when we went to the shop beforehand and he said
‘do you want anything’ he’s like, EOS ‘oh yeah, I’ll have a can of
Doctor Pepper’ and I thought, ‘well, we’re going to get there in a
minute and have a drink anyway but’ so he went in and then he was sat
there like dead quiet in the front and me and **anon** were talking in
the back and I thought, ‘better say something’ like you know, so I
just said to him ‘so what have you been up to this week **anon**?’,
‘XBox mainly’ EOS yeah EOS I was like ‘mm, okay’ , ‘any good games?’
EOS yeah Guitar Hero EOS yeah oh god I know what ch- that was hard EOS
yeah well I- I can't see the point of it EOS oh no I d- cos that’s
what **anon** said to him he said ‘is there like a free mode, you know
where you could like sort of do your own track?’ and he said ‘no’ so
EOS yeah, well he has- he has a guitar at home and I don’t know, and
apparently I mean I’ve- I’ve heard him once but, he’s er, not too
happy about letting me know about it that he- he plays the keyboard as
well but he doesn’t read music, he just picks it up by ear EOS and he
just makes stuff up EOS yeah EOS yeah, well that’s good EOS erm but I
can’t see the point of this- this Guitar Hero if you can’t actually
make a tune yourself EOS yeah EOS you might as well just spend that
time learning to play the guitar EOS yeah, that’s it yeah, cos it’s
just- EOS you know instead of playing somebody else's tracks by
pushing buttons EOS yeah and that- well that’s what **anon** was
saying as well cos he said you’re not really learning the song, are
you, EOS you’re not- you-re not learning anything EOS even though you
are playing along to that song EOS yeah you’re just learning a
sequence EOS yeah EOS but the sequence does not relate to a real
guitar so it’s not EOS yeah EOS it’s pointless it’s- EOS yeah, it’s
like the- you can get like the drums with it can't you, and then EOS
yeah EOS they have like the headset so you can sing along to it as
well can you imagine that you have to ac- I’ve watched like **anon**
and her- her boyfriend and his mate do it, and you have to like it- it
records your notes so you have to like get- hit the high note if you
don’t you like fail the challenge and- EOS I bet it sounds awful, I
bet it’s worse than karaoke EOS oh no, he’s not a good singer his
mate, her boyfriend won’t even try he just plays the guitar EOS yeah,
at least karaoke’s acceptable because you’re mainly drunk EOS eh EOS
you know so that’s EOS yeah that’s true EOS that’s alright, you know
but when you’re sober and you hear somebody EOS oh I- I don’t know EOS
screeching at the top of their voice you know I- EOS yeah, well there
was a couple when we went to Spain there was a few die hard, EOS
karaoke singers weren't they, that weren’t drunk that get up EOS oh
yeah, yeah EOS and do the same song every night EOS there was that old
guy that used to sing that song, that- oh god I can’t remember what it
was now EOS oh I know, and that- that EOS ‘Don't Close Your Eyes’ or
something like that EOS oh, all I remember is that one that kept
getting all bloody Elvis songs and thought he was fantastic and he was
terrible EOS mm, yeah EOS he didn’t even drink but he had a list of
Elvis songs that he wanted to sing EOS ah never seen anything like
that EOS and then what was the ones that they always used to sing, he
used to sing the lad that owned the bar you know to warm everyone up
EOS I don’t know, I can’t remember no EOS I can’t remember what it was
now EOS I’m getting old you know, I’m getting senile and EOS I’m
losing it, me memory goes EOS yeah s- g- I got dragged up I hate
karaoke I don’t mind laughing at everyone else, but I hate doing it
and you made me get up didn't you EOS hey you made me get up and you
bloody filmed it EOS now there’s nothing- EOS yeah but- EOS I don’t
mind making a fool of myself but what I hate about mobile- EOS yeah
EOS mobile phones is that now you can make a fool of yourself and you
have to watch it tomorrow EOS and the whole world can see it, yeah the
whole world can see it on Youtube EOS you know I mean when- when I was
younger you made a fool of yourself when you got drunk, and you just
walked sheepishly into the room the next day and you know and- and
hoped that nobody was going to say anything now you walk in EOS no one
remembered EOS ‘look at you, you prat’ EOS yeah but I didn’t film it
though, I’ve not got it, it was- oh yeah I did have it EOS but I think
I lost it on the computer EOS wasn’t it that lad- didn’t that lad film
it? EOS yeah that Irish lad yeah EOS yeah EOS cos that- that’s I had
to get up and sing the Greece Megamix with this lad I’d never met EOS
we’d like literally- he’d walked into the bar and I think his granddad
had a place over there or something, and he just sat down cos we were
on the table nearest the door EOS no he- he actually he came in and he
sang that song didn't he, he came in and he sang that song and I- I
was at the bar and I was talking to him when he came over EOS yeah EOS
and I says ‘when I used to live out here’ EOS mm EOS I said ‘they had
a- they had a term, for your kind of singing’ EOS I said ‘it’s not
shite, it’s worse than shite’ EOS and he’s looked at me and then he
came over and bought us a drink EOS yeah, yeah and then he was sat
with us weren't he for the night and then we had to get up in the end
and sing with him EOS yeah, yeah EOS and what was the other one we
did, ‘Midnight Train to Georgia’ was it? Oh no ‘Leaving on a Jet
Plane’ EOS yeah ‘Leaving on a Jet Plane’ EOS cos it- weren't it like a
couple of days before we were going home EOS yeah EOS or something and
we had to get up and sing this song and, I- like it was only me and me
dad that knew it and he didn’t know and he was just like filling
little bits in you know in the back he’d be like EOS yeah EOS ‘ah’ EOS
like in the back as we were singing when he didn’t even know the words
, it’s quite funny but EOS mm EOS but we- it was really late on when
we got up though wasn't it EOS yeah EOS cos when you first get in
there it was hammered, like it was absolutely packed weren't it EOS
yeah but then by half past ten all the pensioners have gone up haven't
they went EOS yeah EOS one rum and black and you know then mm EOS and
when- the people that really hate the karaoke all get up and leave as
that starts yeah EOS yeah EOS and then you just get left there with
like the people that like the karaoke and the really die-hard drinkers
like EOS but no I- I that was good I enjoyed that holiday EOS yeah EOS
I remember the first holiday we took you on, God you were a nightmare
EOS was that Majorca? EOS no it was Menorca, and you were just- cos we
went on a- we went on a last minute deal because you would have been-
I took because I never used to take me holiday well in- when I used to
take me holidays from work I used to always drive your mum crazy
because I used to say er, ‘oh, we won’t go away this week cos we’re-
this year’ because we were doing the house up, and EOS yeah EOS and
then I used to be that fed up that when the holidays come like three
days before the holidays I’d go and book something EOS and you know
what your mum’s like, she likes to pack three months before EOS yeah,
yeah and make lists about lists yeah EOS so it, yeah it used- it used
to be a nightmare she used to have a list of the lists yeah EOS and it
used to be a nightmare because she’d be panicking like anything
because she had to try and get everything EOS in one day EOS and she
was five months pregnant at the time with **anon** when we took you
EOS and you were- what were you- you were just under two, and for some
reason everything was a post office, EOS mm EOS and I had to- I mean
your mum had a great holiday she was laying around for two weeks
getting the sun I was running around after you for two weeks
constantly EOS walking all around the walls, all around the pools EOS
and you were great and there was a little slide into the kiddies' pool
and I think it was all great EOS and you were sliding down it and you
were loving it until you went under EOS until your head got wet EOS
that was it then you didn't want, ‘I want to go home, you’ve gotta
take me home’ EOS where was we on holiday when we bought **anon** that
blow-up boat EOS that was Majorca that. EOS yeah he had like this
inflatable boat, but he- EOS he wouldn't go in the water would he? EOS
wouldn't go in the water cos his legs would go through the holes and
into the water, so he wouldn't go in it so he used to just sit at the
side of the pool in this thing with his trunks and his armbands on EOS
and never go in the water. EOS he was only about two wasn't he? he EOS
yeah EOS I remember when we took you- EOS yeah, I think we got a
picture of him somewhere sat in it haven't we? EOS yeah, we went to
that other one at Majorca when you was in the kiddie club. EOS yeah,
the Wizzy club when I was a tree. EOS yeah, what was her name? Was it
**anon**? EOS **anon** yeah, I think s- EOS you've still got the
certificate haven't you? EOS yeah, somewhere yeah. EOS yeah, from when
you was in the Wizzy Club and you was only what, three. EOS yeah. EOS
and you had your one favourite book with you. EOS what was that? EOS
do you not remember it? EOS no EOS ah EOS yeah, you must remember it,
one book you wanted to take. EOS don't know. EOS oh. EOS won’t have
been Thomas the Tank? EOS no, no, no. EOS cos that was after. EOS oh I
don't know. EOS the Pied Piper. EOS oh God, yeah, the Pied Piper. EOS
and you knew every single word of the book. EOS this little lady bird
book and you knew every single word of the book and you used to have
that- that story time at the end of the night for the kids at about
six o'clock, and she came up to me this **anon** cos you'd taken your
book, and you was only about three and she came up to me and she says
‘can Natalie **anon** read?’, so I said ‘no, no, she can't read’ EOS
she says ‘ but she's sat there with the book. She’s turning the pages
at exactly the right time’ EOS I said ‘that's her absolute favourite
book’ I said ‘that's the only book she wanted to bring with her’ EOS I
said ‘she knows every single line in that book. Every single word’ and
I said ‘the bad part about that is, is when I have to read it to her
every night before she goes to sleep, I can't skip a page’ EOS ‘cos
she’ll say, ‘well you’ve missed a bit there, you know, that's not next
that dad’.’ you know EOS yeah, and then we had the fancy dress there
didn't we and he did me up like in this vest EOS and made me a hula
skirt didn't you out of palms. EOS no he w- you weren't. No, what it
was it w- it was the last day, it- it was the last day we were there
and we're all packed ready to go home. EOS mm. EOS and then she says
that she's having a fancy dress for the kids. EOS I thought ‘oh God,
what- what are we going to do on the last day?’ cos everything’s
packed, and you know what your mum’s like, she'd listed everything
again so EOS yeah, yeah, so you can't take it out of sequence. EOS you
know and the list was in the s- you can't take anything out, no, no
EOS yeah EOS no if you get dirty you've got to stay dirty because I’ve
got me list in the case. you know EOS yeah. EOS erm EOS so you were
there, I mean, you were only what?, so high and curly dark hair and
really dark skin because of the- the- the Maltese in you wasn't it?
EOS mm. EOS and er, I thought ‘what are we going to do with her?’ I
thought ‘we'll make her into a hula girl’ EOS and that- so I went out
and I ripped all the- the- the palms off the trees strung them all
together and made you a little grass skirt. EOS mm. EOS put a- a
flower on each side of your head, and that was it, just a skirt and a
flower on each side of your head and your knickers. EOS and when you
went- when you went to it and she asked you what you were you said you
was a tree. EOS did I win? EOS yeah you did, you won it, yeah, but you
said you was a tree. EOS she says ‘what have you come as Natalie
**anon**?’, ‘a tree.’ EOS oh well. EOS intellig- you can't have it
all. I could read. EOS mm. EOS and that little girl that you met. EOS
yeah, **anon**. EOS **anon** EOS yeah, there's a language one for you,
was she a Geordie? EOS yeah, they were Geordies yeah and- and the
accent EOS yeah, and her name was **anon**. EOS her name was **anon**
EOS **anon**. EOS but I thought she was **anon** EOS yeah EOS I
thought her name was **anon** EOS and I said to you, ‘no, it’s
**anon**’, and you got really angry, ‘no, her name’s **anon**!’ you
know, and- EOS she said, ‘her name’s **anon**’, I said, ‘Natalie
**anon**, that’s just the way they speak’, ‘no! **anon** her name’ EOS
and you kept calling her ‘**anon**’ EOS I bet they thought I was
taking the mick out of them EOS yeah, but you wrote to her for a
while, didn’t you? EOS I think so, yeah EOS Th- that girl afterwards,
didn’t you? EOS I think so EOS ah EOS ah, but yeah God, it’s crazy
isn’t it, what you remember EOS aha EOS but- I don’t- it’s whether-
cos when you hear the story, you don’t know if you remember it or EOS
you just think you remember it, you know, cos someone’s told you EOS
yeah EOS cos you’re too little, aren’t you? But I do remember that
book, I remember liking that book mm EOS but that- but you wouldn’t go
anywhere without that book EOS you really- and then EOS wait, I bet- I
doubt **anon** had a favourite book EOS no, **anon** wasn’t a reader
EOS cos **anon**- me brother doesn’t like reading EOS no EOS at all
EOS no EOS I’ve always had loads and loads of books, and he’s just
into computers wrestling EOS wrestling, he’s into- now he’s a- EOS
wrestling was his favourite EOS now he’s a petrol head, isn’t he? EOS
yeah, yeah EOS he loves his car now, but he was- he always loved Maths
**anon**, didn’t he, ? EOS yeah, he was better at Maths EOS yeah EOS
and I was always better at the English and the History side of
everything, the writing, and- but he hates that so it’s like, if he
ever applies for a job it’s like, ‘Natalie **anon**, can you come and
do the big question for me on the application form?’ EOS has he asked
you for this one yet? EOS no, I d- EOS no EOS I’ve already done it for
him last time, EOS oh EOS when he applied, so he’s used the same one
EOS I remember that time he had- was going to his parents evening and
they- was it the History teacher or something had- had pulled a fist
at him or something, he was messing about in class not remember that?
EOS no EOS and he said to me- i- it wasn’t long before he left, and-
and he said to me before we went, before me and your Mum went, and he
said erm, ‘will you have a word with the history teacher Dad’, so I
said, ‘yeah, why? What’s wrong?’, ‘it’s only he pulled a fa- erm, he
pulled a fist at me in class’, I says, ‘why? What were you doing?’ he
says, ‘oh, we was only messing about’ EOS mm EOS so I said, ‘you’re
lucky,’ I said, ‘cos when I was at school, they wouldn’t have pulled a
fist at you, they’d have used it’ EOS you’d have got one, yeah EOS you
know, you’d have got a board duster on your head or a piece of chalk
straight between the eyes EOS yeah EOS you know, but- and- and when I
went up to the school and saw the History teacher, I said, ‘I believe
you’ve had a bit of trouble with **anon**’ he says, ‘oh yeah,’ he
said, ‘i- it was nothing really’ he said, ‘I got a bit frustrated’, I
says, ‘well listen,’ I says, ‘you’ve got my backing,’ I said, ‘if he’s
out of hand’, I said, ‘if it was up to me,’ EOS yeah EOS ‘you could
take him out and cane him, the way I had when I was at school’ EOS
yeah EOS you know, cos it never did me any harm EOS yeah, EOS and all
of this molly-coddling EOS well that’s it cos they’re too cheeky now
aren’t they EOS yeah EOS cos they know they can get away with it, cos
they can’t do anything, but like give them detention or give them
lines or something like that EOS but, I remember being at school, I
was what, must’ve been twelve years old, so it would’ve been the first
year in **anon** EOS mm EOS and- and- like, you- you’re just kids
messing around in the school dinner queue, EOS and the headmaster, I
mean I was only- only just average sized kid, you know, just spun me
round and slapped me full in the face, in front of everybody EOS ‘stop
messing around!’, and you’re just left there, ringing EOS you know,
and it’s just, ‘what’s happened?’, no, but you don’t go home and tell
your Mum or Dad that it’s happened because you’d get another one, you
know EOS yeah EOS ‘you should behave’ EOS for being naughty EOS yeah
EOS crazy, isn’t it EOS well we had that- that one teacher and erm, we
used to have to give school fund every week, used to have to g- I
think it was five pence or something like that EOS mm EOS and it was
supposed to- with it being a catholic school it was supposed to be-
EOS is that like, before they used to do things like, Saint Joseph’s
penny and all that stuff EOS oh God, they always did that, EOS oh,
they’ve always had that EOS we always got them silly boxes we used to
have to make up and take home and EOS fill it they they empty it EOS
you know, and sisters- yeah EOS and give it you back EOS yeah, sisters
of the poor and sisters of the dead and EOS all of that like sisters
of everything EOS yeah EOS and any saints day, anything to get any
money off you EOS yeah EOS yeah, cash based religion EOS yeah EOS
Catholicism, you know EOS yeah EOS erm I can’t remember what I was
saying now EOS the tea- you had a teacher EOS oh that teacher, yeah
and he- and he was our- our sports teacher and this- this is how
things have changed, now this- this teacher would’ve got arrested
these days for what he used to do to us, EOS mm EOS I mean, you’re
like twelve, thirteen years old, and you’re going through that puberty
stage, yeah, and- and when you come out of gym nobody- nobody wants
to- you’ve gotta go for a shower, but nobody wants to strip off EOS
yeah, yeah EOS you know, and he used to make everybody strip off,
nobody could go in in the shorts or anything like that like everybody
tried to do, but he’d- he’d come in the shower himself, with a wet
towel, and he’d be hitting you with the towel and EOS honestly, he’d
be hitting you with the towel, but then, talk about a bit on the pervy
side really, the- you know the foot shower EOS yeah EOS he’d- each
week he’d choose one kid to wash his feet honestly EOS God EOS you
know, and this- this was a Catholic school and this was our gym
teacher EOS yeah EOS but the- the- the same guy was erm, our form
teacher for one year, and if you didn’t bring in school fund or if you
got in trouble in his class EOS mm EOS he had a dice and he’d roll the
dice EOS and whatever it landed on, that was how many canes you got
EOS and if it landed on six you got a chance to roll it again EOS so
you definitely got them EOS yeah, you definitely got some but it was-
EOS it was just whether you were gonna get one or five EOS yeah, yeah
EOS yeah God it’s ment- now they’d just- EOS but if six came up again,
you got a six EOS oh right EOS yeah EOS cos now you’d just get lines,
I was actually reading something on facebook the other day, all about
**anon**, you know, and about the teachers where people like coming on
an reminiscing and they’re like posting on there and stuff, and there
was one guy **anon**, that used to do the IT, and I thought he was
alright but they all used to take the mickey out of him and he had
like a squeaky voice and he had like this massive big boil on his head
EOS and like, he was just a little bit, you know, a bit sweaty and,
just one of them, and they all used to call him **anon** EOS but he-
he actually got sacked and I think all he actually did was, somebody
was like- EOS shout at somebody EOS yeah, he shouted at someone, and
someone was being disruptive and it was on- I think it was only like
the- EOS he was there for the first year I think I was there, so I
would’ve only been like, what, twelve, and then after the second- the
second year he never came back and from what I- I gather he just like
literally, asked someone to leave and they were messing about and
wouldn’t go out, and he just pushed them outside the door, and that
was it, he was gone EOS God EOS just for like, forcefully removing
somebody from the class EOS and cos we- none of us knew like why he’d
left and they were all like sort of talking about it on there and,
there used to be this other guy as well, erm, the D-T teacher,
**anon**, and erm, they all used to take the mickey out of him cos he
used to like, wear dead tight pants, and he used to stand like an
action man, but he was only like five foot four or something EOS dead
tight pants and a camel toe EOS yeah, yeah, and they used to call him
like- he used to call all the lads, ‘listen, sonny jim’ EOS yeah,
‘when I was a lad’ EOS like, you know when he was talking to them,
yeah EOS ‘when I was a lad’ so EOS but he- apparently he- they were
saying on there we never- I didn’t know that, but his brother was at-
famous, he was an actor, EOS in some like TV programme, I can’t
remember what he was in now but, he turned into like, a bit of a
disgrace like, his brother, and apparently like he never you know,
wanted to talk about him, and he didn’t really have anything to do
with him, or anything, and it’s- they were like all talking about it
on there, so then there was like **anon**, our DT teacher, he was
mental, he used to like, this **anon** guy, and like he- he’d like
deliberately say people’s names wrong, just to wind them up, so like
my n- my mate, her name was **anon**, and when he used to read the
register out, he used to just read out **anon** EOS like that to her,
and she used to go, ‘I’m not answering you, if you don’t use me name
properly’, he goes, ‘right, you’re in’ EOS there was some characters
but, it’s- they- some of them were good, but it was more like, sort of
the older ones, you know, the proper old fashioned ones, but like,
when they were all new, they were all like, sort of they’d either be
intimidated by the kids or, they’d just like be super P-C, cos with it
being a EOS as well, it was just, you know, people are all the more
eager to complain aren’t they but EOS oh, well the- there was no P-C
when I was at school w- when- EOS mm EOS w- started at school, EOS
remember I told you that, when I slipped off that corrugated steel EOS
yeah EOS I’d ripped all the skin off me fingers, and I went into
school the next day, with plasters all over me hands EOS mm EOS and
the k- the teacher caned me on the same hand EOS mm EOS now that was-
I was about- I was probably about nine or ten when that happened EOS
mm EOS you know, and- and- and they were wicked, and we used to have
this- this one teacher, **anon** you know the three foot ruler they
used to use on the- on the board EOS yeah EOS that was used for
whacking you on the head with EOS and we had- we had another one,
**anon**, and he had a whip and he had- it had a wooden handle, about
so big, yeah, and then it was like- it was like a belt about, such a
length, there, and he used to hit you with that and it used to wrap
round your hand and come back EOS lethal EOS and flick you, it was- he
was a nasty piece of work him EOS mm EOS God EOS yeah, yeah EOS and
then this- this guy called **anon** he- he was erm, he was really
nice, this- I was probably about eight years old, and he’d erm, he’d
been caught in the erm, the retreat from Dunkirk EOS right EOS erm,
and he’d been on the beaches for like three or four days waiting to
get a boat back home in the Second World War, and erm, he was shell
shocked EOS ahh EOS and- but he was a really- a really, really nice
teacher and dead tolerant and everything, but if you upset him EOS ah,
he used to, and he’d boil, and his face would be red- EOS go crazy EOS
yeah, and he’d go really, really crazy, like everything’d come out of
him, you know, but he was- there used to be like about thirty-six kids
in a class EOS yeah EOS and every- EOS cos think, they were a lot
smaller when I was at school EOS yeah, every Friday night, before we
went home, or every Friday afternoon, he’d buy the whole class a bar
of chocolate each EOS aww EOS he was- he was great, he was really
nice, but he used to have this- this EOS flip side EOS yeah, yeah, EOS
yeah EOS like this- this- this bit of erm schizophrenia sort of spate
you know, that he’d- EOS yeah EOS he just- he’d just switch completely
EOS yeah, to someone else EOS and he could be a l- yeah, could be a
little bit scary EOS yeah that’s- that- my favourite teacher though
was **anon**, me History teacher, cos she was great, and cos I- EOS oh
you- she loved you, because you loved history EOS yeah, oh I know she
loved me, yeah, cos I loved history but, there was that- she was like
that though, she’d boil, she’d be dead nice and like dead chatty and
if you loved work and you wanted to work she loved you, but if you
wanted to just like doss about, she didn’t have any time for you, and
there was this lad in my class, **anon**, and he wanted to be a pilot,
and he- he did history just because he wanted to learn about the
planes that were used in the wars, and he’d obviously didn’t get to
learn that much about it at- EOS I don’t think, to what he was
expecting but- EOS why cos- cos he pilots trolleys round tescos does
he now EOS yeah, yeah, I think he actually- I think he has got his
pilots license now though, but erm, yeah, and he used to like sit next
to me like in class, I remember I was doing this mock test as it was
coming up to our GCSEs, EOS and sh- she’s stood there and she’s like,
going through all the answers after and everybody’s saying like what
they got, and what they got, and she’s saying what the right answer
is, and then he’s going like down this page and he’s going, ‘I haven’t
got that question’, so she’s going, ‘you must have it **anon**, you
must have it, you’re just not looking at it right’, ‘I haven’t got it,
I haven’t got the next one either’ like that, and she goes, ‘let me
have a look’ like that, so she takes the paper off him, and he’d been
doing a completely different paper to all of us, it had got mixed up
in there and he goes, ‘I wouldn’t mind, but I thought it was a bit
wrong, cos when I looked at Natalie’s **anon** answers in the exam’
EOS ‘they weren’t anything to do with my questions’ EOS and you could
just see- that’s what she was like, she was quite pale, and she had
this big like, mad perm, so her hair was like, out on end, and you
could see the blood, you know, like rising up her face, and he’s
going, ‘there’s gonna be steam coming out of her ears in a minute,
there’s steam coming out of her ears’ and he used to like really wind
her up, and like, you’d be outside the class, and she’d line you all
up to come in and then she’d walk down the line and make sure you were
all in EOS and then she’d let you all go in, like one by one and he’d
be like, behind me in line, going ‘walking the mile’ EOS ‘walking the
green mile’ she was proper like- cos we did all the Nazis and
everything EOS oh sh- was she the one that was dead chuffed cos you
had a copy of ‘mein kampf’ yeah EOS yeah, yeah, yeah, I had it in me
school bag, cos me Dad had leant it me and I’d literally read about
four pages, and she saw it like as I was unpacking stuff EOS and
decided Hitler was a nutter EOS yeah, yeah EOS and put it away EOS and
she like picked it up and she’s stood there in front of the class
going, ‘look at this, Natalie’s **anon** got ‘mein kampf’.’ And I was
like, ‘shut up’ EOS they already think I’m a swot EOS yeah, cos what-
that lad used to say, ‘beam me up swotty’ didn’t he, to you? EOS yeah,
yeah, in first year, yeah EOS ‘beam me up swotty’ yeah EOS but he- she
was that enthusiastic about Hitler and all the Nazis and everything,
just- not about what they did, obviously, but just about teaching
about it, and it was the bit she was obviously really interested in,
he’s- this lad, **anon**, used to call her, **anon** EOS cos she was
just so into it, I remember we went on this trip to London, and we’d
had to have like this essay in about something to do with the Nazis
before we went, EOS and he’d not done it, and she’d give him like and
extension, to give it to her before we went on this trip, and he’d
still not give it to her and we were sat at the back of the coach on
the way there and he goes, did- I said, ‘did you give her that
essay?’, so he goes, ‘did I heck, no I didn’t get it in, I just
avoided her all day today ‘til we were leaving’, so I went, ‘oh
right’, and we were having a laugh about it, and I said, ‘she won’t
let you get away with it you know’, he’s like, ‘I know, we’ll be there
on the London Eye and she’ll be like, climbing up the side of it with
the essay in her mouth’ EOS and he was like, one of those, they sat
there at the back, you know, drinking vodka out of a cap like, EOS
have it in a seven up bottle or something EOS crazy it’s always like-
EOS did you ever keep any animals in the class at school, did you
ever? EOS h- erm, not at high school, we didn’t, no, at primary school
we did, we had hamsters erm, and stick insects EOS oh, we- we had- we
had a hamster when I was in primary school, we had budgies, and we had
two rabbits, but we used to- EOS oh, we had fish as well EOS we used
to use the rabbits as an excuse to get out of class EOS and they used
to stink in the back of the classroom, because they- they were
basically belonged to me and this other lad, they kept the hutch at
the side of where we were EOS and rabbits, ah EOS they smell, yeah EOS
God, they smell something awful EOS yeah EOS and these never used to
get cleaned out, we used to take them for a walk in the yard so we
could get out of lessons EOS we had a big yard, EOS when we had this
hamster, there was this lad in our class called **anon**, we used to
call him **anon**, and he was EOS you know, these big and daft kids
EOS yeah EOS he was a real one of these big and daft kids, and the
hamster got out EOS and I said, ‘hey **anon**, it’s there, behind
you’, and he stands back, and he crunches its head under its foot EOS
ahhh EOS and this hamsters like EOS aww EOS twitching EOS yeah , yeah,
its teeth had gone through its- EOS you know they have them big teeth
EOS yeah, through its bottom lip EOS and its teeth had gone through
the bottom jaw bit yeah, EOS oh EOS ah EOS so we- we took it out and
a- asked the teacher if we could go and bury it, so we took it out and
buried it while it was still alive EOS ahh, Dad! EOS that’s awful EOS
it wa- it just wasn’t quite dead, you know EOS I bet it was when the
weight of the dirt went on it EOS yeah, well, I don’t know, but it was
starting to rain so we thought we’d better get on with it EOS ooh, so
not only was it twitching and half dead i- under soil- EOS yeah, yeah
EOS it was drowning under there as well EOS oh my God EOS - EOS oh no,
we had hamsters, and we had erm, you have always have hamsters, don’t
you? EOS yeah EOS remember- cos **anon** had that hamster that he
brought home as well we had fish, and I remember one of the fish died
and the teacher was like, ‘oh, you need to flush it down the toilet’,
and I was really upset, cos we had fish when we were little, didn’t
we? Goldfish, and I was like, ‘you can’t put it down the toilet, it’s
not right’, ‘oh it’s dead, it’ll be alright’ and i- I was like, I- EOS
you’ve got to bury it EOS yeah, but I was like worrying about it, she
went off and did it, and I’m thinking, ‘God, what if it isn’t dead’,
it would be like stuck in the u-bend, you know, in the toilet EOS just
there forever, swimming around EOS and then we had the stick insects
that no one wanted to clean cos you had to take them out, ooh God, I
don’t like insects EOS well, when we had- EOS at all EOS when we had
the budgie we used to- cos we used to get them to stay in at dinner
time, cos there was always a reason with us for having a pet in the
class, it was either EOS yeah EOS to get out of the class or to get in
the class when the teachers weren’t there, and the budgie, we used to
be able to get in straight after dinner because, ‘let the budgie out
for a bit of exercise while the other kids all-’ EOS did he not just
poo all over? EOS no, they don’t, well we had- we had budgies, we kept
budgies when you was a kid EOS yeah M; you know, all they did was eat
the picture frames, weren’t they, budgies and cockatiels, you know EOS
yeah EOS yeah EOS but erm, the classrooms when I was a kid, they were
huge, the classrooms EOS mm EOS with really high ceilings and you
couldn’t catch this bloody budgie, EOS cos the- the teacher used to
have to have one of these- these poles for opening the top windows
the- you know- EOS oh yeah, we had them, yeah EOS and erm, we couldn’t
catch this budgie so we used to squirt it with water pistols until it
got soaked and it couldn’t fly EOS and then- then throw and old
curtain over it and wrap it up in a curtain and stick it back in the
cage EOS aww EOS it was really well looked after, you know EOS I’m
surprised it ever bothered to come out to fly EOS one of- one of the
cleaners took it home in the end before it just fell off the perch EOS
aww EOS oh, that’s nasty, remember them cockatiels we had though, and
we used to let them out and they’d fly around in the living room and I
had one, mine was **anon** like the grey one, wasn’t it, with the red
cheeks EOS yeah EOS and then **anon** had, what was his, **anon**? His
white one, was it EOS **anon**, the white one, yeah EOS and it used to
like land on his head, remember, and it used to route through his hair
EOS yeah EOS it used to like- I dunno like, EOS it was looking for
lice EOS yeah, yeah used to like, clean his head, you know like with
his beak, was really weird EOS was it rabbits you had? And you called
yours the traditional **anon** EOS yeah EOS and **anon** called his
**anon** EOS yeah EOS **anon**, and **anon** EOS I remember them
getting out one day, into the rockery at the back, and they were going
behind and me **anon** was there, and he’s quite big me **anon**,
isn’t he? And he was like, running around EOS trying to catch it, yeah
EOS from one side of the rockery to the other trying to catch these
rabbits, remember that happening EOS mm EOS is that the dogs? EOS
think the dogs are getting a bit restless aren’t they, they’re at the
back door EOS I thought- I thought I haven’t got anything in the
washer EOS sounds like it EOS sounds like the washing machine moving
EOS well I used to- I used to collect like frogs and newts and what
have you when I was a k- cos it- that was the kind of things we did,
we’d- EOS yeah EOS go up to, I mean they call it ‘Black Harry’ up here
now, don’t they, but we used to call it dead railway at the side of
**anon** golf club EOS oh, yeah, yeah, yeah EOS there’s- there’s three
lakes there EOS right EOS that, at the time, we called them the three
sisters, and there was a stream that was part of the old railway that
had been taken up years ago that- that used to run up the side of it
EOS right EOS we used to get all the frogs and newts there, well I had
erm, a demi jar, and it was about a- a gallon sized demi jar, you
know, with really thick glass EOS mm EOS and we lived on the flats
over here in Salford, and then I had, all I was great at keeping
pairs, believe me, we had- EOS had all of these frogs in it, or newts
which it was, EOS but, they were on the veranda, in the sun, in this
jar, and they had no air getting out for water, and they boiled EOS
because the water was come- because the sun was coming through this
jar, and there was only like that much water in it, you know EOS yeah
EOS and they boiled alive in it EOS aww EOS and I’ll come back and
they’re all upside down, dead EOS I bet me Nanna was glad, weren’t
she, I bet she didn’t like having them outside EOS oh yeah, she didn’t
like anything like that, no EOS no, so how did you like get from the
flats to there, did you always just used to walk? EOS we used to walk,
yeah, or bikes, not like you lot, you know EOS it’s quite far that EOS
‘where’s the car?’ you know EOS yeah EOS no, we used to walk EOS yeah,
it’s quite f- do people not use the buses? EOS we we- we didn’t have
any bloody money, we were- you know, we were little kids EOS mm EOS we
didn’t have a- you wanted to go somewhere, you walked EOS used to go
on your bike- EOS I mean we used to go on an expedition to **anon**
EOS you know, we- we’d go, we- we were all kids EOS that’s quite far
though isn’t it, from where you were? EOS yeah, yeah we were all kids
and- and we’d have these Second World War water canteens EOS and- and-
and we’d be going on our adventures, we- we were going to, you know,
we were off to fight the Second World War on the woods, you know EOS
cos that’s what we got brought up on, it’s- EOS yeah EOS you know EOS
kids don’t do that now though, you never like see them playing out-
EOS no EOS when they’re outside they’re just being a menace unless
they’re really little like the ones around here, where they’re out on
the bikes, you know, and stuff like that, and you see them on the
skateboards and stuff, now they’re just EOS I mean, we used- yeah EOS
vandalising summet aren’t they, or drinking on the corner, or- EOS I
mean we were, I mean the kids now, the- they’re nothing to what we
were EOS mm EOS we were absolute little sods EOS yeah EOS I mean we
used to have full scale battles for bonfire wood EOS would, cos every-
cos what- when we were kids, where we lived, there was loads of crofts
all over the place, and that was cos we were so close to the docks
during the war EOS huh EOS these are all bombsites, so you’d have a- a
row of terraced houses, and four or five houses in the middle’d be
missing, and there’s just be a croft EOS right EOS where a bomb had
just hit that and the rest of the street was okay EOS yeah EOS and
these were all over the place, and wherever there was one of these,
the kids in that area, that was their bonfire spot EOS right EOS so we
used to have raids and raid the others EOS and nick there wood but
when I- I say raids, it wasn’t just all like, charging and shouting
and what have you, we’re lobbing bricks at one another, throwing
bricks, and we used to have bin lids as shields EOS honestly, cos I
had my head split open three times EOS and- and in them days, I mean
i- if a kid gets his head split open now, it’s off to the hospital and
EOS yeah EOS have a cat scan and, whatever else, you know EOS yeah EOS
no, know what I mean? EOS yeah EOS your Nanna’d just look at it, you
know, bathe it, ‘oh, you’re alright, go on’ EOS yeah EOS you know EOS
back outside, get some more dirt in it, you’ll be alright EOS yeah,
yeah, so I probably had me brains mashed at some time or other and it
was just EOS just part of growing up EOS mm, yeah EOS no, that we’d-
we’d- we’d played on the demolition as kids EOS mm EOS when they were
pulling all the old terraced houses down, now if they’re bringing any-
if they’re pulling anything down, there’s a bloody big secure fence
around it and the kids can’t go in EOS yeah, and they have all them
signs up don’t they and stuff EOS yeah EOS well now, if kids do go on
it and hurt their self, they end up claiming, don’t they EOS yeah,
well we used to be walking cos they’d- they’d strip all- all the wood
out of them, they’d strip all the- the floorboards out of them, and
just leave the joists EOS mm EOS and we’d be upstairs, maybe two,
three stories high, walking along these joists with nothing- and- and
that was just part of it, that was- EOS yeah EOS part of what we did,
that was part of growing up EOS yeah EOS you know, but we were- I mean
what the kids do these days was nothing- EOS mm EOS and I mean all
this asbo rubbish, and all that lot, we would’ve been getting them all
the time EOS yeah EOS we were absolute little swines we were EOS I
think what it is now, is just people- kids then were just like
naughty, and they were playing, but now, they’re just disrespectful
aren’t they, I think EOS well what I- I don’t think EOS there’s a
difference, isn’t there? EOS we weren’t naughty so much as we never
caused any trouble at home, you never caused- y- EOS yeah EOS you
basically, you didn’t shit on your own doorstep EOS yeah EOS for want
of a better description, you didn’t erm, but there was- there was EOS
but people were just curious and that EOS yeah, there was always a
group of us, and that’s all we had to play with EOS yeah EOS you know,
I mean, the- I remember there being a batman craze when I was about
what, probably about six or seven, it was- EOS mm EOS it was the
original batman series where it was all ‘kapow’ and ‘kazam’ and all
this lot and- EOS ‘Batman and Robin, the boy wonder’, you know, and
erm, we were mad on it, EOS so the whole estate, you’d have like,
sixty, seventy kids, all with a lone ranger mask, cos that’s all we
could afford for a couple of pence from the paper shop, and a curtain
tied round you EOS you know, as your cloak y- your batarang, or was it
the bat rope, no the bat rope was a coat hanger on a piece of string
EOS and yo- you’d be throwing it over walls and trying to walk up the
wall like batman did EOS like that, you know and that’s what we had
EOS yeah but now you see- I saw some- a little kid the other day, in a
full batman suit, EOS not having none of that, o EOS just walking
round Morrison’s with his Mum EOS no, we had none of that, we had a-
we didn’t even have the right mask, it was the lone ranger mask EOS
just something to EOS you know, and that- that- that’s what we had EOS
cover your face, yeah EOS yeah, yeah, and everybody’d be running round
going ‘batman, de, de, de, de, de, de, de, de, de’ EOS you know EOS
well it’s like when I was- EOS it’s crazy EOS little I remember like
there was- there was like sort of two ways of dressing up f- f- EOS do
you mind if I smoke? EOS no, that’s fine EOS for Halloween weren’t
there, there was like EOS you got ashtray Natalie **anon**? EOS erm,
yeah, but it’s out there EOS erm, there was like two ways of dressing
up for Halloween, there was like, you could either- EOS there’s only
about two minutes left okay EOS get you like erm, proper stuff-
remember when I used to have them witchy fingers, EOS do you remember
them that you used to put on, and then like they’d have the red nails
on the end, you’d have them or you’d just like go totally the other
way and just wear summet black and tie a bin bag like round you and
then you’d just go and run round if you wanted to be really lazy, and
just knock on the doors, but then when you’re a kid like you love
doing that and then like, when you get older now, and all the kids
start coming round, you just like close the curtains and turn all the
lights off and pretend you’re not in so you don’t have to give them
anything EOS cos like, when I had my other house, I- I didn’t have any
sweets in, I’d completely forgot, and I had like a few chocolate
biscuits, and then, like, I gave a few of them out, and after that I’d
run out and they were like, this last group come round, and I was
like, ‘oh, I’ll just give them twenty p each’ you know, and then once
they knew there was money coming from one address EOS they all EOS
they all came back and started knocking on the door, so I had to like
turn all the lights off downstairs, EOS and go and sit upstairs, in
the back bedroom cos like the terraces are like, alleys, aren’t they,
in between? EOS yeah EOS so they wouldn’t know we were in there, so we
was like camped out in the bedroom for the whole night at the back,
with like this tiny little TV and the computer, just watching that
like, ignoring them all knocking on the door EOS well, when yous- when
yous were kids I had the shop so you used to- you used to get
everything you wanted, didn’t you, you’d- EOS mm EOS you’d come down
for Halloween EOS yeah EOS and it’d be, you’d just choose from what
was there EOS yeah EOS and get everything, and then your Mum’d take
you trick or treating or whatever EOS yeah EOS they called it to EOS
go walking round EOS the neighbours EOS and then when they used to ask
you for the trick you always used to be like, ‘I don’t know that,
can’t I just have some sweets’ EOS you remember them girls when we had
the shop, or were you too young to remember that, who, you kept coming
in the shop during that holiday and, ‘can I have a bottle of lemonade,
can I have a bottle of-’ EOS mm EOS ‘lucozade, can I have a bag of
crisps, can I have some sweets’, and I was saying to your Mum, I was
saying, ‘what’s- what’s going on with Natalie **anon** here, she-
she’s eating an awful lot of stuff, she’s not normally like this’, and
that- that older girl was sending you in EOS mm EOS saying, ‘go and
get this off your Dad, and go and get that off your Dad’ EOS yeah, it
was like, there was them benches round the side weren’t there EOS
yeah, yeah EOS I was telling **anon** that cos he was- we’d drove past
the shop the other week but I think it was when we went up to **anon**
we were coming back, and they’ve took all the trees down in front of
it now EOS yeah EOS - EOS and there’s a lay by isn’t there, yeah EOS
yeah, do you remember when we used to stand there, me and **anon**,
and we used to be ripping all the bark off them trees EOS yeah EOS and
stuff at the side, and then there was the chippy next door, and then I
was telling him about when we used to sit in the video shop when it
was closed in the day, and we’d like, sit in behind the counter and
there was like the door for the store room, and we had like them
little goblins that used to stick and roll down things, and we used to
be throwing them at the door, and racing them EOS like down the door
and th- but they never used to make it all the way down, they used to
always get half way and fall off EOS aha EOS yeah, cos they were just
covered in that much dirt from the floor that they didn’t stick
anymore EOS and fluff out your pockets, and- yeah EOS yeah EOS but I
remember that girl though, cos I- her Nanna was a real good customer
in the shop EOS yeah EOS and when I- I told her Nanna about it, cos I
came round and I- EOS saw EOS these girls were sending you into the
shop, and her Nanna- her Nanna had a walking stick EOS and she
battered her all the way home with this walking stick EOS because
she’d been doing that sending you into the shop EOS God, that was
rough down there wasn’t it? Where that shop was, that was really
rough, yeah EOS Yeah, **anon** still not that nice now though, is it
EOS no, no Beirut EOS and they’re building all them houses now aren’t
they, around it EOS yeah, EOS to hide it, the middle of it EOS like
they did with Ordsall, yeah EOS yeah, building all nice stuff- EOS
erm, if- if you go down **anon**, then you go down **anon**, it’s all
nice new buildings all the way down both of them- EOS yeah EOS and
Beirut in the middle EOS yeah EOS you know, so people buy in it, don’t
they EOS they hide- EOS even though what’s behind them EOS yeah, it’s
cos in- EOS yeah EOS cos they’re bringing all the BBC up and
everything EOS yeah, yeah EOS they’re hoping they’re all gonna move in
aren’t they EOS yeah EOS ‘media city’ or something they’re calling it
aren’t they, yeah EOS yeah, and that’s going on the Lowry isn’t it,
what used to be there though, where the Lowry is? EOS The Lowry? That
was the docks EOS oh right EOS that was, I mean, when I was a kid, I
mean, all the big ships used to come up there, and- and the Trafford
swing bridge, that used to turn quite often, cos when we used to go to
the matches, go watching United, EOS mm EOS quite often you’d be
waiting to cross over while the bridge turned and a big ship went
through EOS right EOS cos the ships come up from just past the Mersey
were they started digging the ship canal, right into Salford docks EOS
right EOS cos Trafford park was one of the biggest industrial areas in
Europe EOS right EOS but there’s nothing there now EOS no, it’s all
like warehouses isn’t it, yeah EOS yeah EOS yeah EOS and apartments
that are empty EOS yeah, that no one wants to live in, yeah EOS yeah
EOS right on an industrial estate EOS but yous didn’t- yous didn’t get
up to half the things, did I- I told you about that time we were
riding on top of the lifts didn’t I? EOS yeah EOS yeah the caretaker
on that block of flats, me and my mate EOS yeah, and the controllers
were on top of the lift EOS yeah, the controls were on the top of the
lift and people were able to get into the life and push the button EOS
and then we were able to override it on the top, so they’d push seven,
and we’d take them to two EOS and then, ‘what the bloody hells wrong
with this lift’, and they’d push seven again and we’d take them to the
ground floor EOS I hate that though, when you’re in a lift EOS and it
doesn’t do what you want, cos you always think, ‘I’m gonna get stuck,
the doors not gonna open’, I did it at work the other day, I went in
the lift, cos they’re working on our building at the minute, EOS so we
have to- cos we’re on the ground floor, they’re working on like all
the floors in between, where we were able to go to the toilets, cos
there’s not toilets on ours, erm, and then the ones where they’ve got
nobody on them, they’re block- they’re locked, so we have to b- going
up to the seventh floor to use the toilets, and erm, like, I went in
and I was that- I had me phone with me, I was on me lunch and I went
in, I had me phone with me, I’m like messing with it, I walked into
the lift, then it goes, ‘doors closing’ like this, I’m stood there and
I’m thinking, ‘it’s not going’ EOS I can’t understand why they have
that EOS nothing’s happening and I’d just not pressed the button, but
it was quiet, and then the lights started going off EOS mm, mm EOS and
I was thinking, ‘oh God, I’m stuck’ EOS I can’t understand why they
have that, ‘doors closing’ I mean, cos if you’re blind you can hear
it, if you’re deaf you can see it, EOS yeah EOS and if you’ve got all
your faculties you know the bloody doors are shutting don’t you EOS
yeah EOS so I- ‘doors are closing’ EOS and if you don’t, you will do
when you get stuck in it EOS yeah EOS ‘doors are closing’, I was
telling **anon** about when they were refurbishing erm, Victoria
station in Manchester EOS yeah EOS did I ever tell you about the- the
row of erm, portable toilets that they put in there, never tell you
about that? EOS I don’t think so, no EOS when we were kids, I was
about thirteen, fourteen, and we went up there, and they’re re-
redoing all the- and the- they’d closed the toilets down and they’d
put this row of portable toilets in well we found out you could go
round the back of them, and you could flush them from the back EOS so
we used to wait until people went into the toilet, EOS got
comfortable, and then flush it on them EOS ‘what the hell’s that’ you
know EOS wait for a scream EOS but we were behind and they didn’t-
they- they didn’t know that you could get behind them people, and then
they’d go out and they’d be soaking and what have you, somebody else’d
come in, flush it again on them, you know EOS we had a great afternoon
EOS simple things EOS yeah EOS aye EOS it is, isn’t it? It is simple
EOS cool, that’s great for that bit, that’s fantastic temporarily. This is marked within the transcription. difficult to
hear during this time EOS one, two, three, four, five EOS Nadine
**anon** EOS one, two, three EOS four, five EOS okay EOS why is your
sister well mad? EOS cos you know the way she went EOS yeah EOS to-
from the petrol station EOS yeah EOS do you know who lives there? EOS
no EOS oh, okay EOS oh never mind now EOS you’re so awkward, and- EOS
thanks it’s **anon** innit EOS yeah EOS that’s why I didn’t wanna EOS
oh EOS go down EOS so d- that’s weird, why did she drive past his
house then? EOS I think she wanted to be nosey, to be honest EOS have
a quick look EOS quick look, see what he’s going on EOS I can’t
believe she w- that’s what she wears to the gym EOS they’re my shorts
EOS do you know the ones that I wore under my fancy dress stuff EOS
they’re my shorts EOS which fancy dress stuff? EOS like, the ones that
I just wear under any fancy dress stuff, like, whatever I need yeah,
so she wears that- that’s why she loves the free tops, EOS that’s why
she wanted a free top from wherever EOS from **anon**? EOS yeah
that’d’ve been cool, she’s obsessed, weirdo, I can’t believe you
didn’t go the gym EOS sorry, I thought she would’ve woken me up if we
were gonna go to the gym EOS I thought you did actually wake you up
EOS she woke me up and asked me for her- your Mum’s number EOS why
would y- EOS I don’t even know, and I was like, ‘no, I don’t have it’,
and then she’s like- EOS yeah, you do EOS I know, but then I realised
I did, I was like, ‘there you go’, and then I went back to sleep EOS
why did she want my Mum’s number? EOS plus, I couldn’t’ve even gone to
the gym, I had my boots with me and I had nothing EOS I told you,
sister’s got shoes, she would’ve found something to fit you EOS well,
if she wanted to go that badly, I would’ve gone with her, but EOS and
now she’s going on an empty stomach EOS with a bit of lamb in her EOS
eurgh, that lamb wasn’t as good this morning smelling, I microwaved it
EOS it’s well fatty in the morning though EOS yeah EOS she’ll be
having lunch again EOS today? EOS tonight, yeah EOS lunch, EOS lamb
EOS yeah, yeah, lunch, it’s called Sunday lunch isn’t it EOS it’s that
lamb that we had last time so we have to cook it EOS the lamb chops?
The one that mush- the onio- EOS lamb steak thing EOS yeah EOS yeah,
the one EOS the one EOS one where the onions were too chunky EOS yeah
EOS and, what- I dunno what else you complained about, but, yeah, all
that stuff EOS I only complained about the onions EOS no, you
complained about something else as well EOS no, it wasn’t the
mushrooms- I don’t even know what we had I can’t remember now EOS we
had ratatouille EOS oh aye, you just- EOS and erm, EOS stood there EOS
potatoes and lamb sweet potato thingy, thingy EOS yeah, yeah, yeah,
that we spent all- most of the afternoon making and then you just- EOS
and the rice pudding EOS mmm, rice pudding, mmm EOS bit of that, EOS
bit of that we should EOS d- do you think **anon** really made at me?
EOS why? EOS it sounded like she was, you know EOS when- EOS when I-
when I said about her being married and she was like, ‘yeah’, cos
seeing someone EOS three times a week is like being married, but I was
like, ‘oh, shh’ EOS well how often does she wanna see her? EOS I dunno
EOS I think we should go round and see **anon** this week EOS what,
and keep him company? cos he’ll be dying without her EOS mm well what
else is- I swear to God he most probably the boringest person this
week anyway you got an eyelash EOS thanks EOS no probs EOS sh- she
won’t be, sh- she’ll just be winding you up, I think if she’s that mad
she would’ve text you EOS yeah, probably EOS I swear they see each
other, they see each other twice at the weekends so EOS she’s always
down there EOS standing isn’t it EOS innit EOS is yeah man EOS don’t
know what to say EOS okay what’s your least fav- EOS so why’s **anon**
coming round anyway? EOS wait, no EOS why is **anon** coming round,
**anon** coming round because he’s cutting his cousin’s hair, the one
that’s like got something wrong with her EOS and like, she can’t do-
EOS something wrong with her? EOS yeah, she’s got this like, I don’t
know if it’s a disease, as such EOS but it’s one of those things where
you cons- like, she’s constantly tired, like, she’ll get up for like
an hour, and then she’ll need to go back to bed and she can’t do her
last year of Uni or something EOS how does she cope? EOS because of it
EOS doing anything EOS well, she doesn’t, she was meant to come and
get her hair cut yesterday, and then she had to rearrange for three
o’clock today, EOS I think she’s been sleeping since yesterday, ‘til
today so she can EOS there was a programme on TV about that, about
sleeping beauty, and she sleeps like three weeks and she missed all
her GCSE re- exams and then she woke up for her prom, and like there’s
nothing you can do, there’s nothing you can take, yeah it was on BBC
iPlayer EOS yeah, eventually it’s just meant to like, wear off or
something, but, she’s dead weird anyway she’s like a d- EOS you think
everyone’s weird EOS no, she’s like a dead bohemian weirdo EOS a what?
EOS bohemian EOS like a EOS like a hippy EOS she used to have big
hair, like, that she just didn’t wash and just back-combed EOS oh my
EOS and it was like blonde, and it was like, out like this EOS bit
like Amy Winehouse EOS it’s- it’s- EOS yeah, so anyway, carry on, EOS
well that’s what- and then, oh yeah, so erm, he’s left all his kit bag
here from when he did my Mum’s hair on Saturday EOS oh right EOS cause
he decided to go out, so EOS why doesn’t your Mum like her hair, I
like it EOS no, she likes it now, she came back from the hairdressers,
and she was like, ‘there’s too much blonde in it’ EOS I can’t believe
you told her EOS I can, erm EOS I can’t EOS she was like, ‘there’s too
much blonde in it’, but I said to her, ‘ooh, I don’t know if I like it
there’s quite a lot of blonde in it’ then she hated it, then she was
like, ‘there’s too much blonde in it’ she was like, ‘will you get
**anon** to put some’- EOS she’s only got in her fringe and EOS yeah,
no, but she had like twice the amount of that blonde, all like here,
just there, none at the back EOS so has **anon** done it again? EOS
**anon** just put a semi permanent dye on some of the blonde bits, to
dye them the brown colour EOS oh my EOS but EOS yeah, it looks nice
now, so EOS what’s her natural colour? EOS grey EOS it’s not EOS she’s
not that old EOS if she grew her hair out it would be grey EOS it’s
not that old EOS her hair all grows through grey EOS nah EOS yeah it
does EOS no, she’s not as old as my Mum EOS her natural colour’s like
as dark as mine though, there’s a picture, erm, of her and all her
sisters- EOS yeah, but that’s not your natural hair colour EOS no, but
my natural hair colour- but erm, there’s a picture of her and all her
sisters, like, together, and my Aun- my Grandma had this thing, that
if you were a child and you had short hair, you’d have lovely hair
when you, erm, old, she’s- when you’re older, like, and she’s Irish
and she’s a weirdo, so that’s what she thought she was like, ‘ooh,
you’ll have beautiful hair’ EOS when it grows, so erm, they all had a
mushroom haircut, apart from my **anon**, cos she had curly hair- EOS
what’s a mushroom haircut? EOS like, when it’s like that EOS oh, I
know, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah EOS so did I when I was like five
though EOS so there’s these pictures of- EOS oh yeah, the pictures-
EOS there’s these pictures when erm, my Mum and like all her sisters
are kids, in black and white pictures, all in dresses, one with curly
hair, the rest all with mushroom hair cuts, my cousin **anon** walks
past going, ‘why’s **anon** in a black and white picture in a dress?’
EOS so EOS joke EOS yeah, it’s the same colour as mine though,
actually, EOS yeah, I can’t believe y-your Mum’s hair grows grey,
you’re winding me up about that EOS it does EOS no, it doesn’t EOS it
does, that’s why she has to have blonde in her hair EOS no, she
doesn’t, she’s not as old as my Mum EOS how old’s your Mum? EOS f-
forty eight EOS my Mum’s forty seven EOS I think that’s how old my
Mum- I dunno- dunno I don’t do Maths EOS why have you drawn a tee-
shirt with ‘wet’ written on in it EOS cause you’re the song from ‘Wet’
Nico- EOS Nicola EOS yeah, that’s the one EOS it’s from that EOS oh,
it’s a bit windy EOS do you want me to shut the door? okay EOS thanks
EOS anyway EOS anyway EOS so what- yeah, so EOS describe your least
favourite teacher EOS which from? EOS your least favourite one EOS
from college? EOS yeah, if you want from college from college EOS it’s
gotta be **anon** EOS **anon**? EOS no the one that we- EOS oh,
**anon** EOS yeah, the one we had from kitchen last year EOS he came
into my work the other day EOS no EOS walked in, I was setting- EOS
gutting, gutting EOS I was setting all the tables up, and I went into
the harness room and looked, and **anon** one of the chefs is like,
sat down like, writing stuff, and then I’m looking and it’s **anon**
bloody **anon**, I’m like, ‘oh my God, what is he doing here’ EOS no
EOS but then I realised, **anon** doing an- EOS who’s **anon**? EOS
he’s one of the chefs, but he’s doing an apprenticeship with **anon**
and he had **anon**- erm, no, he had **anon** EOS oooh EOS and he had,
erm, whats-his-name grey hair **anon** he had **anon** and **anon**
EOS ahh, **anon** ace EOS erm, for like his lessons, but then **anon**
comes every month and asks him like, what’s he’s done and he has to do
all this different cooking stuff and he’s like, ‘have you done that?’,
and **anon** like, ‘no’, and he’s like, ‘oh, I’ll just sign it off
anyway’ EOS he- he has got to be the worst teacher EOS so then he- he
comes up to me and he’s like, ‘so how- is this where you’ve been
hanging out?’ EOS , ‘have you handed all your work in?’, and I was
like, ‘yes’, erm, and I was like what was he going on about? he was
talking about some rubbish- EOS ah, do you know **anon** that came
into our thingy when we had **anon**? EOS yeah EOS he came back to
thingy and we swear he’s like got the sack cos he’s always in work now
EOS what, he’s working with you again? EOS no he’s still like , but
yeah EOS so why do you hate **anon**? EOS cause he’s just knob EOS
giving all them sheets in the last week of college, swear to God
didn’t need it EOS mm EOS didn’t need it did we EOS no EOS but- EOS
no, because technically he should’ve gave that sheet to us, evaluation
sheet each week we had him EOS well, he didn’t though did he EOS he’s
just a knobhead EOS well, I told you he was - EOS I’ll always
remember- whenever I think about **anon** I’ll always think of that
time when he was writing on the board EOS excuse me, sorry EOS was
writing on the board and th- the higher and higher he goes EOS ahh,
the arse EOS the top- EOS tops coming out and you can just see more
and more of his arse, everyone’s like, ‘urgh’ EOS oh my God EOS and
it’s like, ‘**anon**, why are you looking?’ EOS **anon**, I wonder
what she got, bet she got treble distinction EOS do you think? Yeah,
probably EOS mm should find her on- in facebook EOS oh God EOS but
actu- EOS **anon** EOS but yeah, why who’s yours? EOS erm EOS I didn’t
really- well yeah, **anon** probably from college EOS mmm, **anon**
alright, **anon** was sound EOS **anon** was weird sometimes though,
don’t you think? like, she’d go in a mood over like stupid things EOS
yeah, but she had problems at home Alan **anon**, don’t be tight EOS
yeah, but she EOS her best mate was like dying of cancer EOS yeah, but
she did often go in moods and stuff EOS mm EOS if you said stuff or-
EOS she never went in a mood with me, she did go in a mood in a
restaurant though when we EOS yeah she always seemed to take things
too personal, as well sometimes **anon** but my wor- EOS mm EOS my
actual worst teacher I think about when it- it’s gotta be **anon**
from school when- she’s from **anon** and she’s got like the strongest
accent ever, erm, she had a baby, and she was like- we were like,
‘what’ve you called your baby?’ and she’s like, ‘**anon**’ , ‘oh,
great’, and then erm, she got married and then we weren’t sure if her
name, EOS because she couldn’t say ‘haitches', we weren’t sure if her
name was **anon** or **anon** for like a year EOS why couldn’t she say
‘haitches’? EOS cause she was that common EOS sounding she used to
call **anon** all time- EOS **anon** on away- he’s away EOS she used
to speak to **anon**, and erm, she’d call him **anon** and sh- he’d be
like, ‘’ all the time and she’d- I think she used to do it on purpose,
say words with ‘haitches’ EOS mmhmm EOS and she used to go, ‘do you
want a chuffty badge?’ when- if you thought, like, if you got
something right or you were proud of yourself or something EOS why
would you want a chuffty badge? EOS and she used to actually make them
like, if you were doing something like, creative, like ‘do a title
page for your book’ she’d get like stickers out and make a chuffty
badge, like EOS oh I see EOS ‘here’s your chuffty badge’ EOS standard
EOS mm do you reckon who I’ll always remember from college EOS go on
EOS **anon** EOS **anon**? ah, that beasty EOS she’s- sh- she had baby
didn’t she? EOS yeah EOS she got it took off her EOS are you
surprised? EOS well, no EOS she- EOS ah, she hated me EOS sh- EOS she
did EOS she loved me EOS she hated me for a passion EOS ‘I’m going to
the Trafford Centre to meet my someone special’, like, great EOS I
think it was the jogging pants that did it for me EOS oh, God EOS big
arse EOS that arse and then, who was it- **anon** that they always
used to wind- wind him up about like, ‘is **anon** your someone
special?’, like, ‘no, my someone special’s called **anon**’ like, oh
God EOS who’s **anon**? EOS **anon** EOS the one that you were
partners with in **anon** and didn’t know his name EOS oh aye EOS for
ages, and then bumped into him in **anon** and like, ‘who’s that-
who’s that’ I was like, ‘**anon**’ you’re like, ‘ooh aye’ EOS and the
one that- the one that works at **anon** EOS yeah, yeah EOS yeah EOS
does he actually work at the **anon**? He does EOS well, he did,
anyway, but so did that **anon**, you know the pregnant one? EOS oh
aye, she hated me EOS I think in the first year she did, second years
EOS I’ll always remember her though when she was at **anon** when she
was made partners with **anon**, cos **anon** had a bad back, and she
was pregnant, so the two of them couldn’t do anything really EOS
gutted EOS yeah, put them two together EOS **anon**? EOS yeah she was
sick wasn’t she, and she hurt her back or something EOS ahh, **anon**
was well pissed off with her there EOS well, you would be EOS didn’t
she stay in the first one like, in the bus all day EOS yeah she worked
for like an hour and then stayed in the EOS I remember you dragging me
to get some food like, ‘Nadine **anon**, you need to eat, you’re gonna
eat now’ EOS oh yeah, cos you didn’t eat all day EOS no, I didn’t eat
the whole first day EOS no, it was disgusting that place EOS I don’t
think I could cope being a runner, seeing the kitchen EOS eurgh, the
lunches were horrible there, whenever I think about- EOS why would you
pay like, nearly hundred and something quid f- EOS the buffet was
alright but, it was just the bloody- EOS we never had the buffet in
ours then EOS oh yeah, you didn’t get it did you EOS that was on the
spinny things innit EOS it was the erm, EOS thingy though, the erm
four cheese and mayonnaise sandwiches, I was like, eurgh, not eating
that EOS I wouldn’t mind but you didn’t even have hot water most of
the time, that coffee- coffee was minging EOS I know EOS I remember
serving coffee and it’s just so rank EOS the cakes were good there but
then there was that bitchy chef that always used to come over and be
like, ‘you can’t save all the cakes’, like, ‘well, we don’t wanna save
all of them, but we’re not gonna chuck them all away, people are
hungry’ EOS ‘people aren’t gonna’ chefs are well mean EOS I know EOS
our chefs are mean at work, but yeah, they get away with murder as
well EOS chefs can just be mean at times, can’t they? EOS yeah, can’t
they EOS I’m not a chef EOS no, you just stand there and look pretty
EOS you do though EOS oh, I’ll have to be a chef on Wednesday though
EOS gutted not coming to your kitchen I might come and complain EOS
and you’ll be like, ‘ahh, is this Nadine **anon**?’ EOS yeah EOS it’s
so annoying, they’ll- and they’ll probably ask me like, ‘is there this
and this’, I’ll be like, ‘I don’t know’, some woman came up to me
yesterday and w- well, not yesterday the other day when I was really,
really busy, the only one behind the hot plate, and she was like this,
‘can I just ask you a few questions about the ingredients?’, I was
like, ‘in a minute’ EOS Alan **anon**, Alan **anon**, Alan **anon**,
you already told me this last night mate EOS oh EOS even though you
can’t remember the conversation we had I can EOS what when she g- the
one that couldn’t have tomatoes, yeast or gluten? EOS yeah and then
there was one about peppers, and she was allergic to peppers EOS oh
yeah EOS and then she’d EOS just peppers, which is weird EOS yeah, but
she asked you about the red and- EOS red and green EOS green, but
she’s actually allergic to all of them EOS yeah, ‘any red or green
peppers in it?’ ‘no’, ‘what about the other colours?’ I was like, ‘why
don’t you ask me if there’s any peppers in it?’ EOS standard yeah,
just cos you can’t remember EOS oh, it’s getting warm in here again
EOS do you want me to open the door? EOS it’s the brightness I think
EOS windy though isn’t it pretty windy EOS yeah EOS erm, what do you
remember from your first day of school? EOS erm, from the very first
day? EOS your very first day EOS remember having take- picture taken
at the front door EOS did you? EOS mm EOS I didn’t EOS have you not
seen my pictures? EOS I remember my blazer was like three times- sizes
too big for me EOS you had a blazer? EOS I had a black blazer EOS
eurgh, minging I wore my summer dress the first day EOS did you? EOS
yeah EOS in year seven? EOS oh, in year seven? I thought you meant
like primary school EOS I don’t- oh, I remember hiding behind my Mum’s
coat in primary school EOS why? EOS she had a big long coat, and I
didn’t wanna say hi to anyone, so I lifted the coat up and stood under
it EOS you pussy I remember when high school, there was like the bikes
and erm, my sister’s like, ‘right, wait there’ EOS ten past three,
‘don’t move until I’m here, wait there Nadine **anon** wait there’ I
went, ‘okay’ and then I met **anon** and then we walked round and saw
like all our chum mates and that was it EOS erm EOS and we used to all
get lost as a four, just to be late to lesson, standard EOS I remember
on the second day, erm, of school we had PE EOS I remember in the
first day of year two I was- told my Mum she didn’t need to come and
pick me up again, I’m walking home and my Mum never p- walked to
school pick me up ever again so yeah, and erm EOS that’s good EOS oh
yeah EOS hmm EOS it wasn’t that far really from me house, it was quite
far actually for year twos EOS pah EOS mm, mm, mm, mm EOS so why is
**anon** coming round apart from pick the bag up? EOS just to pick the
stuff up EOS oh, so you’re not staying? EOS no EOS moody bitch EOS
we’ve gotta- he’s cutting her hair at three o’clock and he’ll have to
be quick or she’ll fall asleep EOS can’t she just like fall asleep and
then you just do it EOS that’d be a bit dangerous someone trying to
cut their hair EOS hmm, suppose EOS imagine if she started sleep
walking like that guy EOS ahhh, that guy was mank, I swear we’re gonna
watch that on CTV EOS I wanna see it EOS ahh, no, did I tell you about
**anon** getting told off from the CTV camera? EOS no EOS hot plate,
**anon**- sprawled out across the thingy, right **anon** was like
showing it to **anon**, **anon** comes in cos we’re like laying up the
chalet, and **anon** goes, ‘who’s this, who’s this?’ and I was ‘oh,
that was **anon** before on the hot plate’, **anon** went ape shit at
him, honest to God, it was so funny EOS why’s **anon** getting
involved though? EOS cause **anon** came into see us cos she’s been
away, and she’s like missed them, so she came into see us all, and
then she was like, ‘right, what’s the goss’ and then she went to
**anon** and **anon** was like, ‘ah, come and have a look at this,
come what **anon** did’ I wouldn’t mind, but he only came in at eight,
and then he ha- he was like sprawled across, and **anon** was like, ‘I
wouldn’t mind but you didn’t even go out last night’ EOS ‘don’t agree
to breakfast if you couldn’t’ he was the one who got us into trouble
with the customers, apparently we’re moody people and we don’t wanna
be here so EOS the other week, well, no, this week, erm, some woman
came into work and erm, she was speaking to **anon** and was like,
‘right, so, what we want is, we want the erm, late lunch’ and she was
like, ‘I don’t know if the late lunch is on today actually’ and then
she was like, ‘well, it’s outside’ and so then she was like- EOS
what’s a late lunch? EOS the late- it’s just a menu that we do when
the regular lunches come off, we do a late lunch, so, they do t- like,
cos they normally don’t do stuff to order, they do shepherds pie EOS
scampi, and erm, sticky mango chicken- EOS so it’s a bit like a buffet
EOS no, cos they cook it f- like, to order EOS mm EOS and you get it
brought over to you and everything, so, but the main lunch was still
out, so she goes and asks if they’re doing it, and then erm, she was
like he said something like, erm, ‘we won’t be doing it until like,
half three’ or something, then she was like, ‘right, can we order it
now, and come back’ or something and then she was like, ‘right, we
want two child’s portions of the shepherds pie’ EOS why child? EOS she
goes, ‘well, we can’t do child’s portions of the shepherds pie’ she’s
like, ‘why?’, ‘they’re already portioned up in an adults portion, and
they’re that price, and it doesn’t say anywhere that we can do a
child’s portion’ and she’s like, ‘well, we want child’s portions, this
is absolutely ridiculous’ so she’s basically on one, she’s having a go
at erm, **anon** then like, wouldn’t stop, I don’t know what even she
was saying to her, I kind of looked over at her, and then in the end
she was like, ‘it’s not very good, you’re loosing five customers here
that nanana’ EOS and going on with herself, in the end she walks out,
I turned to **anon** and said, ‘are you alright?’ like this, and then
she smiles and kind of goes, ‘yeah’ and kind of like laughed it off,
but kind of just to say, ‘yeah, it’s fine’, the woman comes back like,
thirty seconds later, ‘I don’t think it’s right that you’re laughing
at us as soon as we leave’, I was like, EOS ‘excuse me, we weren’t
laughing at her, I asked her if she was alright’, and she was like,
‘no, I don’t think it’s very funny, you’re laughing at us and we’re
walking away, you’re- this EOS what was that? mm EOS yeah, think so
EOS ahh EOS I’m just gonna carry on anyway EOS yeah, carry on EOS erm
EOS so what else did she say EOS she just said that really EOS didn’t
she walked away and you laughed again? EOS yeah, then she walked away,
and no-one even realised EOS well you- to be fair, you were laughing
EOS no, we weren’t laughing, I asked her if she was alright, because
EOS cheeky bitch EOS it was quite personal the way that she was saying
to her, like, ‘w- why- what are you’ she kept saying to her, ‘what are
you gonna do about it?’ EOS and she was like, ‘there’s nothing I can
do about it’ and in the end she- I thought that she’d just leave it,
the woman, and erm, erm, **anon** thought that **anon** or **anon**
would step in and say something to her, but they didn’t even know what
was going on, we had to say it to **anon** later on, oh, it was
ridiculous it’s so horrible EOS you’re so mean, I’m a good girl when
I’m in work EOS what are local people like in **anon**? EOS shit, I
don’t speak to them EOS I hate **anon**, with a passion EOS what’s
wrong with it? EOS it’s just not right, you know it’s not right can’t
bel- believe my Mum kicked off about it erm, you know when **anon**
said, at the meal EOS said what? EOS ahh, cos Mum- Mum said something
about the house being up, and **anon** goes ‘oh, you moving?’ EOS and
sh- sh- Mum goes, ‘yeah’, and then I went, ‘yeah’ and **anon** like,
‘oh, where do you wanna move round- round here again?’ and she goes,
‘aye, don’t you?’ and then you said something, and you were like, ‘I
couldn’t turn back time’ and it’s like, ‘if we could turn back time’
EOS oh yeah EOS and then your Mum was like, ‘yeah’ and I was like,
‘bloody hell, it’s starting now’, can’t believe she said it she knows
I wouldn’t move EOS wouldn’t have moved from here? EOS yeah EOS hmm
well EOS you know me EOS at least they’re not like in bred in **anon**
EOS hey? EOS at least they’re not in bred in **anon** EOS in bred? EOS
yeah EOS why? EOS cos they’re all in bred in **anon** apparently EOS
oh yeah, it’s ‘nine’ EOS what? EOS it’s what **anon** was doing when
he took the piss out of EOS oh, oh EOS yeah, I’ll just shut up now EOS
it’d be slightly funny if you could do it EOS what? pr- pr- pr-
problem is right, **anon** was trying to do it again and it wasn’t
funny EOS oh EOS it had- it was like one of them moment ones where it
had to be there, it’s like, carry on from the conversation, isn’t it,
innit EOS yeah EOS swerve it EOS mm EOS but yeah just cos you’re dead
posh round here EOS dead posh EOS you are posh, told you you’re posh
EOS everyone’s posh to you that isn’t like, you basically EOS yeah
anyone’s posh that- that can read EOS you can read, you just can’t
read well EOS I can’t EOS and you get confused EOS you can’t, you- you
say it EOS I said that you can’t read well EOS oh right, okay EOS mm
EOS erm, EOS what do you and your family do in your free time when you
were growing up? EOS we used to stay in each others room and not talk
EOS standard, isn’t it EOS that’s not- just sit in each others rooms
and just not talk? EOS just not talk EOS no, cos you used to do stuff
with **anon** EOS yeah, that was different EOS well, what did you used
to do with **anon**? EOS I used to play on the playstation, but, you
know, got bit of obsessed EOS used to take him to the park EOS yeah,
and then break me arm EOS well, you know I was never in when I was a
kid I was always out tea on the go micro-chips EOS what did you- I
thought, no, I didn’t think you played on the playstation, I thought
it was that woman that used to come and visit him EOS yeah, night port
thing, night care yeah but what are y- who- are you meant to kept him
entertained through the day? EOS your Mum did a lot EOS my Mum like
looked after him, I just kept him entertained EOS oh, guess so EOS I
didn’t do anything, the only thing I did was give him a drink now and
then EOS - EOS and then like spill it over himself I remember trying
putting his coat on once, it was so funny, I so just like laughed all-
for most of the day, Mum goes, ‘you not ready yet?’, and I went, ‘no,
can’t put his coat on’. We had a moveable bed, and you know how they
can rise, well, my brothers could actually go right up to the ceiling
EOS did he ever put it all the way up? EOS ye- EOS ah EOS what did
your Mum say? EOS my Mum wasn’t very happy with me EOS what, with you?
Why, did you do it to her? EOS no, we’re both on it EOS and we go,
‘let’s see how high it could go’, we didn’t realise it went, EOS but
it got stuck, like, we couldn’t move EOS ah, no EOS so we were all,
‘oh, I’ll have to jump off’, and Mum goes, ‘you dare jump off’, ‘can’t
get it down Mum, can’t get it down’, she goes, ‘yeah, you can’, okay
so, yeah, we got it down in eventually EOS eventually EOS but you
know, like, when you go right to the top, and then it was just like
yeah EOS can we pause it at all? EOS I don’t- erm, yeah, okay, wait
28.30 – Recording paused – continues on in soundfile EOS two, three,
four, five EOS yeah EOS one, two, three, four, five EOS okay EOS come
on, mine EOS yeah, man EOS yeah, man I don’t like- I don’t want about
school EOS I dunno EOS yeah, great, that’s fantastic EOS I’m bored,
thanks EOS what games did you like playing as a kid? EOS the lying
down game No left channel EOS the lying down game, can’t believe it’s
used to call EOS no, I never played it as th- the lying down game,
plankey EOS plankey EOS I don’t know what EOS I can’t believe- EOS I
know my cousins used to always play, erm, we had two but they were
basically the same game but they had different names, one of them we
called, erm, was ‘pizza planet’, and one of them was ‘cool kids’, and
they were basically our own, erm, takeaway, fast food place EOS Is
that why you got into hospitality Alan **anon**? EOS I don’t actually
know, but it’s a bit weird, cos we used to like pretend that we had,
the- erm, like, frying the chips, and you used to, erm, have buttons
to do the drinks and stuff EOS that is sad bastards EOS and, erm, used
to have wh- I don’t know what those things are called, but you know
those boards where you like write on them, and then you can just wipe
it off- EOS white boards? EOS no, it’s not like a white board, erm-
EOS chalk board? EOS no, it’s like the grey stuff- EOS an
electrasketch? EOS yeah, one of them, I think EOS is that not- EOS so
EOS me hairs all knotty now EOS erm, yes I think it was an
electrasketch EOS is it? EOS erm, so and we used to like write ‘cool
kids’ on it and do like smiley faces and stuff, and stick it on the
door, and we’re like, ‘this is our restaurant’ EOS did you not have
any of your mates, so you had to hang round with your cousins? EOS I
used to go to my cousins every Saturday EOS where’s the pencil? EOS
don’t know why, but we used to do it all the time Left channel resumes
EOS oh well all the ti- EOS and then we’d go to Drama on Sunday as
well EOS erm what games did you used to play as a kid? EOS I used to
be a chef with my Nan, used to make her sit there, you know the old
newspapers, used to roll the cutlery in that cos my Nan never used to
have napkins, and I used to like take her order, used to have like a
little apron out- made out of a tea towel, and I used to like make-
tell her to sit there and she used to have to proper like pretend she
was eating, I’m like, ‘right Nan, you’ve finished that now’ ‘on to-’
EOS ‘on to that’ yeah, used to have all like her frying pans out and
stuff and like, yeah, ‘I’m cooking Nan’ she’s like, ‘what am I
eating?’ EOS I was like, ‘dunno, just make it up as you go along’ EOS
‘you can decide what you’re eating’ EOS yeah EOS ‘it’s up to you’ hmm
EOS erm, I dunno, it was always school or home I remember being- EOS
yeah, it’s really hard to think about what you used to play as a kid
EOS we used to play shoe competition on the swings EOS shoe
competitions? EOS yeah, where you- where you sh- kick your shoes off
on the swing EOS could never do that, I always used to tie my laces
EOS oh my God, get a grip EOS shoe competition EOS ah no, cos you know
like at the park they’ve got like- you’ve got that spider web haven’t
you? EOS yeah EOS and then they’ve got the like fence haven’t they? My
sister could get it over that fence, that’s a bowling green of course,
so it’s old biddies that own it EOS so they used to kick off every
time my sister you like, played, ‘can I have me shoe back please’ EOS
was that at **anon**? EOS yeah man, back in the day back in the day
EOS mm EOS I dunno, always used to play with my brother we just used
to- EOS on the playstation? EOS no used to just have a ride around,
holding his wheelchair with rollerblades on EOS rollerblades, used to
be mint weren’t it EOS what, so you’d wear your rollerblades and hold
onto his- EOS hold onto the back EOS ahh EOS and then you’d just like
standard innit EOS you’re such a geek EOS I never played with me
sister hardly EOS don’t blame you EOS she always used to be round at
**anon** house EOS you didn’t wanna play with her in the gym EOS ah,
so boring EOS I get bored EOS that is my favourite thing, like, that’s
happened in like, years EOS what? EOS when you were like ‘I’ve been to
the gym, I need to eat’ EOS I’m like, ‘why’, EOS ‘I need to put back
on the weight that I’ve burnt off’ EOS that’s not the purpose of the
gym, for EOS I only went to keep her company, I didn’t say I needed to
loose some weight problem is, she got knackered before me EOS well,
obviously you’re meant to be at the gym then aren’t you? EOS mm, well
that’s what she said but I- EOS how can you just like do exercise for
an hour and a half gets so boring EOS I dunno EOS go like swimming or
something keeps you more entertained EOS swimming’s not that
entertaining EOS it is EOS how is it? Just looking at water EOS dunno,
don’t feel like you’re doing much EOS it’s entertaining when **anon**
swimming EOS why? EOS have you not- have I not told you about how
**anon** swims? EOS no, I thought we were going swimming today, see,
we could’ve gone swimming EOS because you didn’t go to the gym EOS
right, anyway when **anon**- when **anon**- EOS no, no, don’t change
the subject EOS I was- I- we were talking about this subject first,
you changed the subject EOS yeah, because you’re the one who said we
could go swimming and EOS well- EOS you’re like, ‘ah no, I’m going to
the-’ yeah I might tell my Mum to come early and drag her swimming
with us EOS right so **anon**- when **anon** EOS that sounds like a
plan done it EOS when **anon** swimming EOS ahh, and the chips from
that s- yeah, sorry EOS but- yeah, the chips in **anon** make me
always feel sick EOS ahh, they used to be fit EOS cause of the smell
from the- all the chlorine EOS they’re fit, fit as, that used to be
like, weekend, me and my sister, that’s what I did with my sister, go
swimming with the floats, and you know if you had arm bands you
weren’t allowed to go past like a certain, like- EOS did you ever put
armbands on someone’s feet? EOS no EOS I did EOS **anon** nearly died,
the lifeguard goes, he was like, ‘take them off, now’ EOS why? EOS
because EOS you put armbands on your feet, and you go like that, and
as soon as you let go they go, pff, like that and you go upside down
EOS standard EOS and they’re like stuck on your ankles EOS so you
can’t get them off either EOS which ones did you have? Them blow-up
ones that you couldn’t put on your arm like , and you can ne- EOS pink
ones EOS pink EOS yeah EOS you’re a boy EOS yeah, no, they weren’t
like EOS my bum’s sore now EOS bought them cos they were pink, they
were like the pink ones that they sold there cos they had like yellow
ones- EOS do you remember the rubber ring ones that you can get now
EOS no EOS yeah EOS but anyway, as I was saying, when **anon**
swimming EOS bum’s sore EOS like when we were on holiday, he’ll like
go in and he looks like- like he’s like, his neck’s like this, like
the water’s there EOS and- and- so he’s like this, and then every now
and again he’ll go under and he’ll be like spitting water out, like,
EOS oh my God, and he constantly looks like he’s just going to die EOS
like he’s stand there, and he’s like- and he always grabs onto people
like, ‘’ and then EOS so as you as you get, like, when we’re on
holiday, he’ll like be drowning me and I’ll do like, that to him and-
EOS can he not swim? EOS he can swim, just about, like, with that EOS
like, dying, I’m like, ‘oh my God, you’re the worst swimmer ever’ EOS
I bet you’re not that good EOS I’m better than him anyway EOS I bet
you’re not that good did you used to go swimming in high school? EOS
yeah EOS ‘til what age? They’re meant to stop after the first two- two
years apparently EOS yeah, we only did it in year seven- year five and
year six, oh not in high school, no, we never did it in high school
EOS you didn’t do it in high school? Jammy EOS no, we only did it in
Primary EOS we had to do it all the way to year, erm, eleven, it’s
only cos people couldn’t swim in our class EOS no, they seriously
couldn’t, no-one could swim in our class apart from me EOS it’s like,
really bad, she’d right- ‘we’ll do front crawl’, and we all had to
like, be in the lanes cos, to like, our class was that small we had
one lane each EOS and no joke, she says, ‘do front crawl’, no one
could do it, they’ll do doggy paddle, she’s like, ‘ah, do backstroke’,
everyone could do backstroke apart from the ones who used to just kick
their legs EOS yeah, I know, your arm- EOS and then- EOS your arms
don’t really help with backstroke though, I don’t think EOS no, I
never see the point, and then erm, EOS you just always wet your face
and stuff EOS the breaststroke cou- no-one could- everyone could do
the arms, but then they didn’t do the legs EOS right, they just like
kicked their legs, EOS no, you don’t do, yeah EOS but if you don’t do
your legs right you co- it doesn’t work the same, cos you’re meant to
glide in the s- yeah EOS you see, yeah, I’m a geek really, and then
erm yeah, no-one could do butterfly apart from me, everyone used to
stand there and- EOS what’s butterfly? EOS the one where you go, pfff
EOS never even done that in my life EOS and you know that one that
you’ve gotta lie on your back but you’ve got to like go forward oh,
okay EOS no EOS it’s like the, yeah, it is, it’s like an unusual one,
and then we used to have to spin all the way down and then you used to
have to jump in the pool to extend your legs apparently, d- EOS could
you dive? EOS no, we weren’t allowed to EOS oh EOS I remember you did
a belly flop once, it was so funny EOS do you know what was the- were
you ever jealous when you all used to come in- in the pyjamas to do
like the one with the EOS no, I wasn’t allowed, my sister did for BTEC
sport EOS oh EOS she had to be in fully clothed shoes and everything
and they did like this diving and what have you with EOS the clothes
on and stuff EOS that was hilarious, I was well jealous in year five,
when all the year sixes were like- EOS we used to do water polo, that
used to be good EOS and no-one ever wanted to go in the deep end EOS
I’ve never pl I was gonna, ah- I was gonna ask the most stupid
question then EOS go on EOS it wasn’t about the horses in water polo
anyway EOS I’m really confused EOS g- I couldn’t remember what it was
for a second I was like, ‘oh yeah, polo’s the one with the horses
isn’t it, how do horses play water polo’ yeah, that was a bit of a
stupid one EOS okay, wait three EOS one, two, three EOS yep, go EOS one, two, three EOS
perfect, when you’re ready EOS erm, I already know the answer to this
question, but how many brothers and sisters have you got EOS erm, two
sisters, one brother EOS two sisters? EOS yeah, well, Mum got with a
new step-dad didn’t she, and after about a month or so she was
pregnant so EOS ooh EOS but **anon**, she’s four EOS four now, bloody
hell, that’s been a long time EOS think she’s four EOS since erm, when
we was in Scouts wasn’t it? EOS yeah it was, when was that? About
eight years ago? EOS God, I can’t even remember, was it longer than
that? was back in two thousand four? EOS Jeez EOS at the latest EOS
was you in Salford Scouts or was it just explorers? Was in Salford
Scouts as well? EOS yeah, yeah, well hundredth Salford wasn’t it EOS
hundredth, ah, you were the enemy EOS yeah EOS fifty nine EOS was you?
so what’ve you got, you’ve got **anon** EOS **anon**, **anon**, and
**anon** EOS how old’s- how old’s **anon** now? EOS he’s four years
younger than me, so he’s EOS he’s not? EOS seventeen EOS Jesus EOS or
something EOS I remember him when he was about, like EOS oh no, is it
nineteen, might- it’s nineteen, sorry EOS it’s nineteen EOS yeah EOS I
remember him when he was God, how old was he, about eleven or
something like that EOS don’t even see him anymore, he’s w- he’s like
a bit emo, he’s got EOS is he? Is he? EOS big hole in his ear, his
hair’s a mess EOS he looks like a skunk actually cos he’s dyed the
ends blonde at some point EOS what, off power rangers EOS power
rangers? oh dear EOS erm actually, I think I seen your Granddad
actually when I was doing erm, when I was on the cavity wall
insulation EOS yeah, I think you said you went to try and sell it off
and EOS yeah, I like I knocked on his hou- I knocked on- I knocked his
house and erm I sa- I saw him go in the house so I went, ‘oh, there’s
Lewis’ **anon** Grandad’ EOS yeah EOS went to knock on the house EOS
no answer he just- EOS probably saw you down the street, ‘oh, he’s
trying to sell me summet’ EOS yeah, just- just ignoring me EOS ahh
don’t know how many brothers and sisters you got, I think, no- EOS
I’ve got one brother, one sister EOS I didn’t know you had- oh yeah, I
did I knew you had a brother, he’s a younger brother isn’t he? EOS
yeah EOS your sister older than you? EOS no, EOS oh, right EOS me
sister’s erm, sister’s seventeen EOS seventeen EOS **anon** erm,
**anon**- he’s nearly twenty one now EOS wow EOS yeah, he’s going aw-
he’s going on holiday for his birthday and erm in October EOS oh,
where’s he going? EOS he’s going to erm, is it Cos EOS Cos, yeah EOS
yeah, but he failed to invite me so EOS that was a bit cheeky wasn’t
it? EOS what, he’s just invited his mates? EOS yeah, just going with
all his mates cos he’s- he’s good mates with erm, you know everyone
that we work with at **anon** EOS oh yeah EOS erm, so he’s going with
a lot of them, all of his mates from- from erm from when he was a, you
know, doing his bricklaying EOS yeah EOS and stuff like that, so EOS
is he still doing that? EOS no, he’s just doing- he’s working at
**anon** with us, isn’t he EOS oh right, okay EOS erm, doing a bit of-
he works more in the kitchen and does a bit of driving work as well,
you know like a little bit of a EOS yeah EOS like assistant chef yeah
EOS that’s cool EOS so he’s not doing bad, but he said he wants to get
back into the erm, to the building but erm, the last- the last guy
that he worked for was an absolute arsehole EOS yeah EOS and erm, so
he’s just put him off, you know, like the guy lived in, up Bolton way
EOS yeah EOS and he used to have to be at this guys house for about
erm, used to have to be there for half six in the morning EOS Jee-
yeah, I remember you saying that EOS and this was before- this was
before he could drive EOS he had to get the train or something EOS so
he had to like, get the bus at like half five in the morning, and you
know, if he was late, the guy wouldn’t wait for him so EOS that’s
horrible EOS I think he just kind of thought ‘sack that, I’m not- I
don’t wanna be working in the bricklaying anymore’ sorta thing, but,
but I’ve been trying to tell him, you know, he needs to get back into
it cos he can’t EOS yeah EOS stay at **anon** ‘til forever and ever
more, the longer you’re out of the game, EOS yeah, you’ll it won’t you
EOS the harder it’ll be to get back into it EOS well he’s had his
like, first job, so that’s the hardest bit isn’t it, cos EOS yeah,
definitely EOS when- then you can get references EOS yeah EOS whereas
our **anon** useless EOS yeah EOS he hasn’t had a job yet he’s- well,
he said he’s applied he d- he dropped out of college EOS what college
was he at? EOS he w- he w- he was at **anon** and then he dropped out
of that and I think he applied for **anon** EOS mm EOS and I don’t
think he went for the first day EOS and then just, didn’t go EOS what
was he doing at- at **anon**? EOS erm, he was doing Computing, he was
doing, is it Cisco, is that what you were doing? EOS Cisco, yeah EOS
yeah, I think he was doing that, but he said the- the teachers are
wankers and EOS nah, yeah, it was basically- all it was, was erm,
online modules sorta- sorta thing EOS right EOS so we just used to sit
there in front of a computer for an hour just reading through these,
you know, all these modules EOS yeah, and then just doing the test EOS
and then, like, yeah, and then at the end of each module you have to
have a test and there was no sort of like teaching involved in it,
there was like, it was just, you know, you just sit there and read it,
I think the only thing we did erm, you know, practical stuff, cos it
was all to do with networking and computers and stuff like that, we
learnt how to, you know like y- when you get your Ethernet cables? EOS
yeah EOS we learnt how to make them EOS oh right, that’s alright EOS
and we learnt to strip a computer down, and then put it back together,
they were the only things we did for the whole two years EOS wow EOS
so, there’s no wonder I did- I didn’t erm, I didn’t pass it, cos when,
you like, you’d complete all your modules and then at the end of it
you have to take a EOS you know, like a test covering all the modules
EOS yeah EOS so, and then if you fail that test you have to pay for it
to do it again EOS oh my God EOS oh EOS so I failed it and I thought,
‘no’ EOS ‘I’m not even bothering’ EOS ‘I’m not- I’m not even going
back’ but you have- it’s like something like sixty pound a go EOS jeez
EOS and you know, back when I was working on four pound an hour in- in
Trafford Centre EOS sixty pound was quite a bit of money EOS how did
you do in your Electronics? EOS erm, Electronics in the end, I come
out with erm, a D EOS that’s good EOS so, better than nothing isn’t it
EOS yeah EOS erm, Music Technology, I only- I scrapped that after the
first year didn’t I EOS yeah, cos you pick four four equivalent
A-levels don’t you, and then drop one or something EOS well no,
basically I dropped it because it was, EOS just- I just didn’t like
the tutors at all, like you know at- when I was in school I was into
all me drums and stuff EOS yeah EOS and I like loved music, but then
as soon as I got to college just, I don’t know what- I don’t know
what, but it’s just changed my, like erm, opinion of erm, you know,
trying to be a a musician sort of thing EOS oh, that’s a shame EOS so
yeah EOS I don’t regret it really though I was just too lazy to
practice enough EOS yeah EOS who’s your favourite high- high school
teacher then? EOS favourite high school teacher? EOS don’t think I had
one EOS I don’t- I don’t- I don’t think I had- I don’t think many
people- probably **anon** to be honest you know with Music EOS oh,
yeah EOS he was- EOS I- I rarely had him though, I had, what’s the
other one called, I think she was called **anon** or something but EOS
I don’t remember her EOS she- I think she was only there for like a
year EOS yeah, I know but cos- cos he was a drummer as well, you know,
he like really encouraged me and and erm, you know, he used to help me
out wherever he could EOS that’s cool EOS yeah I still see him about
cos he works for Salford Council now EOS right EOS you know for Ma-
for Mapas, Music and Performing Arts of Salford or something like
that, erm, so I- I see him about, you know when I’m dropping stuff off
at different places EOS yeah EOS so I still speak to him now and again
he was erm, decent do you- what was the worst thing you ever got into
trouble for at school? EOS it probably wasn’t the worst thing but he
really annoyed me, he was erm in RE he was our RE teacher, I can’t
remember if it was a woman she was- EOS no idea EOS she was horrible,
but EOS it was one of them subjects that you just don’t pay attention
to EOS yeah, she complained at me for me handwriting at some- at one
week or something, and then the next week she gave me detention cos me
handwriting was still bad and I’m like EOS ‘what’ EOS ahh, the worst-
I got in trouble for a couple of things, when we was in erm, year
seven erm, I thought I’d be a bit with erm, itching powder EOS oh,
yeah EOS thought I’d be a little bit of erm, mischievous erm and then
me and **anon**, me and **anon** and **anon** used to all mess about
in erm, in Science class, this was year ten, year ten or eleven EOS
yeah EOS we always used to mess about in Science and erm, basically
you know along the Science benches EOS yeah EOS used to get like the
wooden bits along the front, and **anon** snapped one off EOS so of
course, you heard this like big cracking sound EOS teacher looks
across to us all and we’re all there, like rolling our eyes EOS and
the next- so he turns back, carries on with what- what he’s doing and
the next thing you know, I’ve got this piece of wood in me hand and
**anon** just head-butts it EOS like, snaps it in half, and then the
teacher looks round again, and I’m sat there with like two pi- two
pieces of wood in my hand EOS and erm, we both got te- detention for
that and erm, you remember **anon**? EOS yeah EOS Science teacher EOS
yeah, oh, **anon** EOS we- yeah, we- we were in erm, doing detention
and he- and he comes in and he goes, ‘surprised to see you here lads,
wh- what you in here for?’ and, you know what **anon** like, he just
like burst out laughing, and I’m just sat there dead straight faced
and he just went, ‘smashed a piece of wood over his head’ EOS like
that it’s what it is- but that was one of worst things I ever got in
de- in trouble for I reckon so are your Mum and Dad from Salford? From
Manchester area? EOS erm my Mum grew up where my Gran and Granddad are
now EOS **anon** EOS are they in **anon** still, in **anon** EOS in,
**anon** yeah, erm, my Dad grew up in **anon** EOS right, still
Manchester area EOS yeah, but **anon**, stepdad, I think his Mum’s
part Prussian- Persian- Prussian- EOS Prussian EOS is it East German
or summet? EOS yeah EOS or, on the edge of something and then he
lives- he lived in Wales, and in Liverpool EOS and then he moved over
here so he’s got the weirdest accent EOS it’s like, he doesn’t- he
went to the chippy and I was like, ‘ah, get us a chip barm’, he went,
‘what’s a chip barm?’, ‘like, you know, barm, with chips in it’ EOS he
was like, ‘don’t have a clue what you’re on about’ EOS I showed it
him, and he went, ‘oh, that’s a chip batch’ EOS a chip batch? EOS
like, what’s a batch? EOS ah, people from other places, they call it
weird things don’t they EOS they do EOS it’s like, you know like I’ve
got family that live in, in erm, in Southend EOS yeah EOS they- they
erm, they’re baffled by, literally, you know like Peter Kay says it
on- on his thingy, but they are baffled by like chips and gravy EOS
they just don’t have it like, my- my Aunty who’s from up here, erm,
EOS she has it all the time but like, the kids they don’t eat it, I
love chips and gravy EOS yeah, it’s the best meal EOS and every time
you go down and you’re like, you know, if you go to the chippy, ‘can I
have chips and gravy’ they’ll just give you like, a portion of chips
and a portion of gravy, they won’t give it you together, if- if you
want to eat it now EOS mm, yeah EOS really? That’s well weird, ah
where’s your favourite chippy? EOS In Salford? EOS chippy erm EOS I
can only think of two there’s **anon** or **anon** EOS **anon**
definitely, EOS yeah EOS the salt and pepper chips they’re nice EOS
they’re nice EOS erm EOS there’s one- EOS but the one on, you know on
the **anon**, what’s it called now, it’s a Chinese chippy on erm, you
know on the **anon**? EOS yeah used to go there school EOS yeah, the
one right at the end EOS yeah EOS yeah, I can’t remember what it’s
called now, not been there for a while but that’s nice as well what
was your erm, what was your first job after leaving school? EOS I
worked in Costa Coffee EOS oh you did, didn’t you? EOS yeah EOS
working with **anon** and that EOS nah, it wasn’t with **anon**- EOS
you worked in Trafford Centre didn’t you? EOS yeah, I was at the
Trafford Centre one EOS God, I forgot about that EOS cos that, well,
it’s like, went up to the manager and it’s like, ‘oh, I was thinking
like, I want a job, erm, can I have an interview or something’ he’s
like EOS ‘oh yeah, just come down’, cos like I didn’t have to give my
CV in or anything EOS yeah EOS I went down, and he- he- he just went,
‘do you know what, I like you’ EOS he’s like, ‘you can have a job’
turned out he was a raving nutter, but EOS really EOS he, yeah, he
didn’t hire anybody else on and then he had a like a mental breakdown
or something, so there’s like, only six of us who work there, like I
think the hours were something like eight ‘til ten everyday, and then
he left, and it was just like us fending for ourselves EOS it was
horrendous EOS that in the Trafford Centre, yeah? EOS yeah EOS bloody
hell, I remember my- my first job working in- in Trafford, I went to
you know when the job- when the job centre used to behin- be behind
the big screen EOS yeah EOS do you remember when it used to be there?
EOS yeah EOS I went in there, you know, like looking for jobs and- and
the guy that- that was erm running it, sort of thing he said, ‘yeah,
they’ve got this one in BHS here’ erm, you know, ‘fill out this
application form’, so I filled it out EOS and he said that there’s
supposed to be a questionnaire to go with it EOS yeah EOS you know
that, you know, to see what your opinions are on stuff, he said,
‘we’ve not got an- any in at the moment but erm, when it comes in I’ll
fill it out for you and hand it in’ EOS ace EOS and then, so I- I- I
ended up erm getting- going- going for the interview erm, getting the
job EOS I don’t- I don’t remem- I don’t remember if I’ve told you this
but you know when you go for your induction sort of thing EOS yeah EOS
erm, there was- there was about eight or ten of us sat round this big
table, and it was near- near the Christmas erm, period when I first
started EOS yeah EOS so they had some of the things that they used to
sell on Christmas shop EOS ahh EOS and erm, no word of a lie, they had
a vibrator on the table EOS why? EOS so we were all sat there going
‘what kind of, erm, company have we come to work for here?’ EOS was it
a Christmassy one? EOS yeah, the- I don’t- I can’t- I honestly can’t
remember EOS but- and when like, the Christmas shop came in they used
to sell like, you know, like adult stuff like that, like flavoured EOS
yeah EOS condoms and everything like that, which was kind of weird,
when you’re only EOS sixteen and you’re like EOS I don’t think I
applied to work in Ann Summers EOS erm EOS what was your favourite
subject, like, of all time, apart from Music EOS apart from Music? God
I loved History when I was at school EOS oh, we had- what’s he called,
that teacher, the ginger one? EOS **anon** EOS oh, he was quality EOS
yeah, he was- he was a good History tea- and we had erm, what was the
other one called as well? The one that really pale with black hair,
the woman EOS ahh, no- no I’m thinking of a man I think he was the
Geography one EOS **anon** or something, no- he was Science wasn’t he
EOS **anon** EOS **anon**, yeah, and EOS yeah EOS I don’t know who she
was EOS what was she called, **anon**, was that the one? And she got
married didn’t she? EOS I remember the name, but I don’t think I ever
had her EOS yeah, yeah, she wasn’t bad either but yeah I used to love
erm, History and History and Music was about it really, everything
else I just used to loathe EOS yeah EOS what about you? EOS oh, I
like, I liked the Sciencey ones but I didn’t like the teachers EOS
yeah, Science was okay but EOS and I didn’t like Maths either, was
like, really geeky in it EOS no EOS but EOS I didn’t like Maths, we
had erm, is it **anon** EOS oh, she was horrendous EOS she was EOS we
had **anon** at first, and she just used to shout at me for just being
in me bag all the time EOS it’s just, like- it wasn’t in it, I just
had it open, I was asleep on the desk with me head in it EOS but yeah,
**anon** and erm, cos me and **anon** used to sit next to each other
EOS I can imagine EOS so and it was, you know, right near the back of
the class so we were always up to no good EOS and yeah, just, so she
just used to- she never used to like us I don’t think so that didn’t
make it any better but yeah, Science, I reckon cos it was a pretty run
down school by the- by the time we was there EOS it was shocking,
wasn’t it? EOS so they never used to have any Science equipment L;
they had Bunsen burners, that was it, EOS Bunsen bur- Bunsen burners
EOS but we were banned from them, cos we always used to set things on
fire EOS and the clay mats that were all like superglued back together
EOS cause people had been smashing them EOS so yeah what else, what
else, what else, what else, can you remember any good stories that
your grandparents or your parents used to tell you? EOS no, they’re
all crap EOS they just tell you rubbish, don’t they, like if I start
talking to my Gran she’ll- she just won’t shut up EOS yeah EOS she’ll
just carry on, she’ll get slightly on a tangent, and then she’ll move
straight onto it, and then- EOS I think a lot of Gran’s are like that
aren’t they EOS go in a circle well EOS cause my- my Gran, cos she
lives down in Southend with my Aunty and erm, so she- all the time
she’s on the phone to me Mum and me Mum’s sat there like that you
know, trying to get off the phone cos she’s just going on, and on, and
on EOS it’s really hard as well isn’t it, cos they don’t give you a
break EOS I know you c- you can’t tell them- you can’t tell them to
you know, you don’t know what to EOS ‘hanging up now, bye’ EOS yeah,
‘I’ve got to go now’, ‘just a minute, just a minute’ EOS ‘just let me
tell you this’ EOS ‘me kitchen’s on fire, can I go?’, ‘no’ EOS yeah
she phoned up the other night, you know when all these riots were on,
on the precinct EOS yeah EOS she phoned up to see if me Dad was
working but erm, he wasn’t thankfully, he answered the phone going,
‘hold on a minute, hold on a minute, erm, I’m just beating these
muggers off from the door’ EOS she’s dead- she’s dead- EOS he’s a
firefighter your Dad isn’t he? EOS yeah, fireman, yeah I always
remember random stories he used to tell me when- when I was a kid but
the one that sticks out most is just like when, he’s got a picture of
it actually, w- him and one of his, erm, the lads that he first
started working with, erm like, this building’s on fire and there’s
just got a picture of them ru- both running away from this bi- w-
brick wall that’s collapsing behind them EOS woah EOS that was pretty-
pretty cool erm, picture and story to go with it EOS my Mum’s just a
bit of a looser, eh, you know her don’t you? EOS yeah EOS erm EOS do
you see her that often with your job now cos, before when you were
first doing in you her saw quite a lot when she worked on **anon**
didn’t you cos you did some of the- EOS y- yeah, erm, EOS I’ve not
seen her for a while actually, erm, you know, cos with all the council
cuts EOS yeah EOS well, everything’s been scaled back, I mean, when I
first started doing the driving erm, you know, we used to be really
busy everyday, you know, like with like ten or twelve jobs to do
everyday, but now, we’re down to about two or three EOS you know, on a
good day you’ll be like, you’ll have like one big job for like eighty
people and that’s considered a busy day now EOS woah EOS whereas like,
back when we first started you know, used to do like six jobs for
twenty people, so so it has- it has erm, you know, been scaled back a
lot with all the cuts so it’s kind of erm, no, I don’t see- I don’t
see- I’ve not seen her for a while I don’t think- she’s not been to-
up to **anon** for a while I don’t- EOS yeah, well, she used to work
at **anon** but then she moved to **anon** round the corner so I’m not
sure they do the same sort of thing EOS right what d- what- yeah, what
like, what years does she teach sort of thing EOS she’s early so it’s
nursery mainly EOS but sometimes she does a bit of reception EOS yeah,
my Mum teaches erm, like reception she just erm, their school’s just
been closed down and th- you know, they’ve got a new one EOS yep EOS
erm, what’s it called, ‘**anon**’ or something like that EOS oh, yeah,
that’s where **anon** goes EOS no EOS **anon** EOS no, not **anon**
erm, EOS it’s- that’s what Seedy **anon** went to, wasn’t it EOS
**anon** EOS **anon**, right EOS it’s called, erm, it’s down by the
river believe it or not EOS erm, so yeah, th- do you know the school
where she worked erm, **anon** EOS yeah EOS it’s like, hundred and
fifteen years old or something like that EOS woah EOS and it is like,
falling apart EOS you know, you so it’s about time they got a new one,
I think they’re, you know, merging a couple of schools EOS yeah EOS
like they did- EOS they’re doing that everywhere aren’t they? EOS
yeah, like they did with ours when EOS I think it’s horrendous EOS was
it- was it **anon** that closed wasn’t it, EOS yeah EOS and they
merged- EOS some dodgy Broughton people living here EOS merged some of
ours and some with- with **anon** bad times, when they- all the
scrotes come EOS yeah EOS erm EOS did you ever- ever get hurt when you
was playing as a kid? EOS ever get hurt? No, I- I’ve never broke a
bone in my body EOS really? Wow EOS yeah erm, the worst thing that’s
ever happened, and it sounds really naff, is erm, just pushing my, you
know, like a push bike EOS yeah EOS along, and erm, for some reason
this- this lad that used to live round the corner, erm, he come up and
he was just- just messing about like, just like kicked the back tyre,
sort of thing, and you know the- the cogs where your chain goes EOS
yeah EOS like, dug right into my leg so, got a big- big scar on my leg
where that was from EOS ahh EOS I had to go hospital and have stitches
for that, that was about the worst thing that ever- ever happened to
me EOS ahh we had erm, the old Scouts, some of them were like messing
around in our house EOS y- yeah EOS cos like, legged it to the back
door to like try and lock them out, just messing about, and I ran past
the ironing board and kicked the leg of it EOS ooh EOS and broke me
toe EOS ooh oh EOS that was probably the worst I did, erm, I fell out
a tree at one point and cracked me elbow like, cracked the bone in it
EOS yeah EOS ah, but, I wasn’t that bad cos- EOS no, I don’t think-
EOS you don’t really use it much EOS I think I’ve had a couple of
burns and stuff when I was a kid but nothing nothing worth speaking
about really, just the EOS scar on my leg from an idiot down the
street EOS erm, whereabouts did you used to play when you- when you
were a kid? EOS erm, well we used to live in **anon**- EOS did you?
EOS yeah, erm, so there was erm, just some like- where all the houses
go round, there was like a little patch in the middle which was just
like, gravel EOS yeah EOS used to play in there a lot but it’s just-
it was just full of crap, like, what- bits of broken wood with nails
in it, used to go back with EOS oh EOS bit of wood with a nail in your
foot EOS yeah EOS so EOS my brother’s done that Mum was like, ‘oh,
gotta take you to hospital for a tetanus’ and all this EOS get over it
Mum, EOS just wipe it up with an alcohol free wipe EOS but we used to
have erm, where I used to live on erm, do you remember the **anon**
Church on the- on the- on the high- EOS no EOS it was like a really
old old church, like, pretty big church EOS yeah EOS and we used to
play on the grounds there but then they knocked it all down and built
houses over it erm, with like a- just a smaller church to the side and
we used to just like, used to have like, you know like the massive
fences along, erm EOS yeah EOS so- but we dug like a little hole so we
could s- like slide under the- under the fence EOS and we built a
little tree house in the- in the corner EOS ahh, that’s well cool EOS
and erm, we used to get the vicar coming out, you know, like, shouting
at us, going, ‘get off’ and, you know, private land EOS and obviously,
playing in- never went down to Buille Hill Park really, but like, Oaks
Park EOS yeah, Lightoaks is a lot nicer isn’t it? EOS y- EOS it’s got
its little pond in it EOS yeah, but erm, I remem- I remember learning
to ride my bike in- in Buille Hill park though EOS oh, I remember
that, yeah, my Granddad used to go- round the park with us, and you
used to have your stabilisers on EOS yeah EOS tried it with
stabilisers and now I couldn’t do it, EOS but, like, I was like, ‘I
really want to ride it without the stabilisers’ but every time he
tried I just fell off, and then one day, one of the stabilisers fell
off EOS yeah EOS like, on its own accord, I was like, ‘fine’, so, he
took the other one off I thought it was pretty good EOS really? I
remember when my Dad who’s like, you know, like running along behind,
holding the seat so I wouldn’t wobble, and then EOS yeah EOS I just
remember going, ‘w- why am I wobbling so much g- get hold of the
seat’, and tu- turned around an me Dad was like EOS miles away EOS a-
miles away, I’d been riding the bike and I didn’t- you know, didn’t
even know that’s the first time I remember EOS if you could talk to
your young self now you could say, ‘centrifugal inertia, and you can
pedal faster and you’ll be alright’ EOS yeah ahh, they talk about that
word all the time don’t they EOS it’s true though like when- like on
me bike when I’m going round corners, you know, or j- or like you’re
trying to do a u- turn, the faster y- you, obviously not like twenty
mile an hour but, EOS yeah EOS the faster you’re going, then it- the
easier it is to manoeuvre it EOS did you ever do any extra extra
activities at erm, in school or college when we used to have to do
erm, EOS ah EOS what was it called now? EOS I did circus skills with
**anon** EOS circus skills with- EOS I did a bit of that EOS what did
I do? I think I used to do something with music, you know erm,
learning to play another instrument, I started to learn how to play
guitar but you know, drums was the way forward for me, thought,
‘chords, what are these?’ EOS didn’t have a clue EOS I did do boules
at erm, High School EOS oh yeah, I remember **anon**- was it **anon**
EOS yeah, he was a right weirdo EOS he u- he used to teach that didn’t
he EOS yeah, was pretty good actually, enjoyed that EOS yeah EOS I was
rubbish at it EOS I don’t think I ever used to do anything in- in a
High School EOS there wasn’t really much to do was there EOS no, I
used to play a lit- little bit of rugby but I never stuck at it really
EOS no EOS you know, cos my Dad used to play, my Dad used to play for
erm, Salford Reds Juniors EOS really? EOS and he erm, did like tours
in France and Germany and all that when they were- when he was like,
when he was like nineteen, twenty erm, he did like you know, like
tours in France and stuff, and I remember him always telling me about
the coach got erm, you know, got taken ill EOS yeah EOS and erm, him
and one of his mates decided to stay in France with him EOS you know,
while he got better EOS quality EOS so they just had a hol- they just
had like a EOS piss up EOS think it was like a three or four week
holiday just messing about, something like that EOS that’s well good
what do you think of the local people in your hometown? EOS what, in
Salford? EOS yeah EOS well, after erm, was it Tuesdays EOS erm,
incidents, not a lot really EOS it was just a small minority of it,
spoiling it for people wasn’t it? EOS it was EOS was anything bad near
you? EOS I live- I live fairly near to the Salford precinct where it
was- EOS really EOS all taking place, you could see, there was a
couple of cars on f- that they’d burnt out, think it was like the
Manchester Radio car EOS yeah EOS erm, then they’d, you know like,
tipped it over and burnt it out, you could see the smoke for miles
erm, and my girlfriend, she’s like, nosey EOS so we- so we had to go
for a drive round didn’t we EOS so we went for a li- for a little
drive round and you know, like all the roads to the precinct there’s
just like, lines of li- riot police EOS gosh EOS erm, and they all
looked knackered EOS they’d been stood there for ages EOS yeah EOS you
know, without a break, felt sorry for them, one of my Mum’s friends
erm, he works erm, you know, training and co-ordinating the riot
police EOS yeah EOS so he was- he was like up for like forty-eight
hours straight or something daft like that EOS jeez EOS it was erm- it
was all madness wasn’t it though, but I think there’s erm, like I say,
just a lot of people spoiling it for the majority, a lot of people in
Salford are decent people EOS yeah EOS erm, just erm, what was it- cos
I was watching erm is it Question Time with young voters last night
and erm, it was saying that, you know, there’s a lot of erm EOS you
know, it’s not just people you know, being idiots, there is a lot of
underlying problems that they think is the cause EOS yeah EOS there
are broken families and all this erm, did you hear what H- Hazel
Blears said? In h- EOS ahh, I was listening on the radio, I wanted to
turn it off she just- so irritating EOS in erm, was it in the houses
of parliament where she said erm, you know, ‘why aren’t- why aren’t
your kids in school’ and it’s like, it’s the summer holidays EOS ahh,
but erm, watching- watching the news as well with- I’m sure the- the
news people just go around and find the most stupid people to talk to
EOS I know, they do EOS the stupidest people to talk to and, you know,
give interviews to and, you know, you can see why half of them haven’t
got jobs EOS yeah EOS the way- the way they talk and act EOS there was
one that I was listening to and he- he’s like this black guy and he-
he was like, ‘so, why are you rioting’, and he went, ‘oh, it’s just
the police, I hate the police, cos they- they hate us, they can’t
stand the colour of our skin, we’re like, black and Asian and they
don’t even care about their own colour skin’, EOS it’s like, they’re
not being racist then are they, they’re just, indiscriminant EOS like
you, plad EOS they’re just- they’re just stupid aren’t they see that
guy that was in Manchester city centre with his erm, with his t-shirt
pulled up over his face and his- and his sunglasses on, and he was
like, ‘the police can’t touch us today can they it’s free reign’
thought, ‘oh’ I was just watching it and I was thinking ‘why?’ EOS
what’s the point EOS what are they- what do they think they’re gonna
achieve, you know, if they wanted to vent their anger I’m sure they
would find better ways than erm, smashing up their own communities did
you hear erm, TJ Hughes on the precinct, the- they’ve closed it down
now EOS have they, oh EOS because erm, you know cos it got that badly
damaged in the riots EOS yeah EOS erm, they just decided that they
can’t afford to erm, you know, repair it all, so they’ve just closed
it down, so they’re just ruining prospects for people in their own
community really aren’t they? EOS yeah EOS you know, that’s about, how
many people do you reckon are working there, fifteen, twenty people,
that’ve just lost their jobs EOS they now are jobless, yeah EOS so
they’re just adding to their own problems and- they just don’t think
about it do they EOS it’s erm, it’s all stupid I d- I don’t see why
they were rioting anyway, I think they were just EOS just any excuse
for them EOS copy- copy cat riots from, you know, cos I think in
London it was all to do with that guy getting shot wasn’t it EOS yeah
EOS erm, but up here, they j- they had no reason at all did they
really, EOS no EOS they were just copying it, getting away with it cos
th- you know, because they could get away with it so but erm, watching
a few erm, videos you know, that have been posted on youtube of people
getting arrested EOS and erm, what do you reckon- what do you reckon
about erm, you know, if people do get convicted then they should loose
their benefits EOS I reckon that’s quality, and loose their house,
everything EOS mm EOS that’s a good idea EOS at- see I- at first I- I
thought that, you know, yeah, cos they shouldn’t have been involved in
the riots and why should the tax payer have to, you know, pay for the
clean up EOS pay for all the damage, yeah EOS and pay for them who
have caused the mess EOS yeah EOS but then I was watching when I was
watching the- that programme last night and it was saying, you know,
erm, is it not just EOS gonna cos more problems cos these people that
are already on low incomes or no incomes have got, you know, nowhere
to go, so are they not just gonna start causing more trouble than all
this EOS yeah EOS so, there’s a bit of a argument for both sides of it
really isn’t there - EOS deport them EOS deport them, yeah L; yeah,
send them all somewhere else EOS mm EOS just make them live on a small
island EOS or Australia, like back in the day EOS execute them EOS did
you see that about the- was it that e-petitions where they’re trying
to get erm, you know, the death sentence brought back sort of thing
EOS yeah EOS aren’t they all mad aren’t they? EOS well, I think it’d
be quite good cos it’ll get like- jail’s like blocked up anyway EOS
yeah EOS if you get one’s that are stuck there for life anyway, what’s
the point in them being around EOS that’s very true very true erm I
don’t think it’ll deter anybody though cos, you can imagine, in
America they still have high crime rates, it doesn’t really deter
anybody does it EOS no, I suppose not EOS with- with criminals it’s
erm, when they’re committing acts of, whatever EOS erm, they don’t
really think about the consequences do they, EOS no EOS they don’t
think, ‘oh, I’m gonna get banged up for twenty years for smuggling ten
pound- ten million pounds worth of class A’ or whatever they just want
to do it because they’re greedy aren’t they, or- EOS yeah, but if they
do get rid of them then we’re not paying to house them in jails as
well, so it’ll make it cheaper for us EOS mmhmm EOS should bring back
the cane in schools, and let police beat everyone up it’ll be great
EOS that’s another one of the topics that was on that programme last
night, he was saying that, you know, how can you expect these, you
know, these kids, to respect the police when- EOS they can’t- the
police can’t do anything EOS they don’t even respect- they don’t even
respect their own Mums’ and Dads’ EOS yeah EOS and you’re taking the
powers away from the- from the Mums’ and Dads’ to, you know, enforce
that respect, because you know, even smacking a child is frowned upon
and EOS yeah EOS stuff isn’t it, you were saying that- EOS can’t shout
at anyone without ending up in prison EOS yeah, yeah, too erm, too
P-C, politically correct, isn’t it, you know it’s all- EOS it’s human
rights and all that crap EOS bollocks in my opinion EOS yeah EOS never
did me any harm EOS no, it’s good EOS get- getting a smack round the
back of the legs EOS oh, I always thought back of the head was worse
EOS no, no, trust me, the back of the legs was worse you know,
especially coming from my Dad EOS I can imagine EOS he’s massive isn’t
he? EOS yeah EOS that was erm, fun times when I was a kid, well I d- I
don’t get people that, you know, it’s never aff- it’s never affected
me in- in any way, any- anybody that I know that got you know, a clip
round the ear once in a while EOS yeah EOS you know, it’s not affected
them in you know, like, adversely sort of- sort of way has it, you
know EOS I suppose they’re trying to protect people who are constantly
abused but, EOS yeah, but EOS if they’re gonna be constantly abused
then they’re just gonna be constantly- like, putting a rule in saying
‘you can’t hit your kids’ isn’t gonna stop them EOS yeah, there should
be- I think they need to look at it don’t they change the rules EOS
they do EOS so have you- I don’t know what erm- what ways did you have
to help around- EOS help around the house when you used to live at
home with your Mam? EOS erm, I dunno, my Mum was more of a slob than
us, so it wasn’t too bad, but you know what my Mum’s like, she’s she
only did like, the pots and the tea every now and again, EOS yeah EOS
it didn’t really matter to be honest, we were more we all did our bit
and that EOS aha, yeah EOS you have to do anything? EOS used to- used
to be like a fight in our house every weekend, you know, like me Mum
dragging us out of bed at like ten o’clock on a Saturday morning when
you just wanna sleep EOS really EOS cos you’ve been up like playing on
your Xbox or whatever, ‘til like three in the morning EOS she’s
dragging us out of bed going, erm, trying to get us, you know, to tidy
up different things like, you can wash the pots from last night and
she used to make us like al- hoover all the- hoover all the- all the
stairs and landing and clean the bathroom and stuff like that EOS ah,
my Mum was pretty cool with all that, I think she did most of it EOS
yeah EOS think she just erm, made us clean our rooms, and any mess
that we left out she, like, we cleaned that up EOS yeah EOS but she
did the rest EOS she w- the funniest I look back on it now and I- I- I
l- laugh on it, but when- when we were kids, like cos me and my
brother used to have to share a room, erm, if that you know, became,
messer, and me Dad used to warn us, like two, or three times you know,
saying, you know, ‘tidy your room up’ EOS yeah EOS and then if we
didn’t do it, you know, just go, ‘oh you know, we’ll just leave it, do
it another time’, erm, we’d come home from school one day and he would
like have ripped everything out of the wardrobes, all the toy boxes
would be emptied EOS you know, just everything in a big pile in the
middle of the floor and he’d just go EOS ‘sort it out’ EOS ‘sort it
out now’ y- you know, ‘you’re not going out until you’ve tidied your
room’ so we used to have to sit there for like you know, three hours,
just EOS that’s quite good that EOS tidying the room, and then it used
to be spotless for about two months, but then it used to get back to
the same thing EOS that’s why- but my room now you know, it’s always
spotless so I think that’s been drilled into me, you know EOS mine
would be if **anon** wasn’t in it all the time EOS oh, God EOS she’s
so messy EOS every time **anon** comes ro- eve- every time **anon**
comes round to ours, you know, it just- it’ll be, you know, there’ll
be a few clothes you know, on the back of the chair or whatever, but
she’ll just like, throw her bag on the floor, her shoes and everything
and EOS ah, it annoys me you know, just spent half an hour cleaning up
and then you come round and erm, mess everything up EOS yeah, I live
at me own in **anon** at the moment, and it’s just bliss, it’s just
like, nobody makes a mess EOS yeah EOS and then, if I make a mess I
clean it up like pretty much straight away anyway so EOS that’d be ace
erm EOS I do miss **anon** like but she comes round and visits me, and
I’m round here more than anything, I think EOS yeah at least you’ve
got her your car, how’s your car doing? EOS yeah, it’s alright, you
can- like, it looks like there’s a really, really clean patch just on
this wheel arch where I managed to scrape it up the wall EOS and it’s
just got a different coloured paint on at the moment EOS oh it’s only
like a little scratch, but, yeah, it’s alright EOS mm EOS I’ve had a
erm, just had me car insurance EOS renewed EOS how much- EOS but I pay
it in one EOS how much? EOS it was well, the renewal price was one,
six then erm, I changed to Admiral for like an ultra low mileage EOS
yeah EOS so, and then it got it down to one, four, and then I put
**anon** on it, and it went- knocked it down to one three I was like
EOS that’s weird isn’t it? EOS that’s brill, but they’ve now got a
tracker in it to check my mileage EOS you’ve got to have a tracker on
it? EOS I’ve got it on it, yeah but it’s- all they do is just check
how many miles you do in the year, and if you go over then you gotta
pay a premium cos I said I’ll only do five thousand miles EOS yeah EOS
which is why it went cheaper but if my car ever gets stolen or
anything I can like phone them up and say, ‘can you just- my car’s
been stolen can you-’ EOS track it sort of thing EOS yeah, turn the
tracker on EOS that’s a- that’s a- that’s alright isn’t it? EOS and
then they give it all to the police, and the police go and find it EOS
that’s decent my bike’s got so many cracks down the side of it where
the previous owner dropped it on the floor EOS ahh, have you not like,
dropped it or anything yet, EOS nope not dropped it at- I- I came off
it in EOS I can’t see any cracks actually EOS it’s on the- it’s on the
other side I came off it in erm EOS in Buille Hill park luckily, EOS
yeah EOS you know on the grass EOS yeah EOS so that was the only time
I’ve fell off it so far erm, and it was actually quite funny, I got up
laughing to myself just going, ‘oh my God’ EOS but yeah, there’s like
big cracks down the side of it and you can see where, like it was been
painted over sort of thing, but it’s like, cos it’s like, it’s like
shiny isn’t it EOS yeah EOS but, on the other- on the other side, erm,
it’s just like matte, matte blue paint EOS ahh EOS and it just looks
stupid erm, but I can’t complain for what I paid for it and the
mileage on it there’s still- it’s not even got a thousand miles on the
clock yet EOS has it not EOS mm EOS wow EOS ah, it’s great for, you
know, just going back and forward to work you know, takes me like,
well, not half the time, but you know, depends what time, if I’ve
gotta go you know, down to **anon** at you know like five o’clock and
it’s really busy, just zipping through EOS mm, weaving EOS zipping
through the traffic is pretty cool, but did I tell you- did I tell you
about that argument what I had with that van driver? EOS I think you
did EOS yeah, I was like just – EOS oh, you were going past weren’t
you? EOS yeah, I was ju- I was just like going past the line of
traffic and I stopped to let him- to let him come past on the other
side of the road, and erm, he starts shake- shaking his head at me
going, you know, like mouthing off in his van going, ‘ah, what you
doing this for, what you doing this for?’ EOS so I was just like you
know, g- give him the fingers EOS and he pulled up at the side of me
there, and he was like proper screaming in my face going, ‘why don’t
you get to the back of the queue, all these other people have gotta
wait’ and I was like, EOS ‘I’m on a bike’ EOS it’s part an- ‘part and
parcel of having a motorbike to be honest with you mate, you know, I’m
not gonna sit in a queue of traffic when I can just overtake everbody
am I’ EOS no EOS oh, gotta think- EOS I really want a motorbike now,
what? EOS gotta think- gotta think sometimes erm, have you not thought
more about getting yours? EOS I have but it’s EOS are you gonna wait a
couple of years do you reckon? EOS yeah, probably until like, we get
our own place and that, cos EOS yeah cos I reckon- you probably need a
garage to store it in, to EOS yeah EOS to save it from getting nicked
EOS I could put it in the back garden at the moment, but EOS mm EOS
it’s cost as well EOS yeah EOS if I could get rid of my car then I
would, but I can’t for EOS no, well if you- if you, you know, cos I
know, the reason I got rid of my car was cos the insurance was just
was too high EOS yeah EOS you know, I think I was paying two thousand
pound, and it was only a little fiat punto EOS yeah EOS so I thought,
you know what, erm, this doesn’t justify it, you know, I only travel,
you know, n- not far to work do I, I walk to work most days, so I just
got rid of it and got that cos it’s cheap as chips to run, three
hundred and fifty pound a year on me insurance EOS that’s quality EOS
and erm EOS my tax is nearly that, road tax what was your road- EOS
how much- how much is your tax for a year? EOS oh, it’s about two
hundred and fifty five I think EOS bloody hell, do you know how much
it is on that EOS it’s probably about five or something- EOS fif-
fifteen pounds for the year EOS fifteen, ahh EOS don’t laugh, it’s not
funny EOS ahh yeah EOS no, it is well worth it, I would do it, but I
need a car to get EOS yeah, it can be- it can be a bit of a- EOS a
pain in the arse, you know when it’s raining or it’s a little bit
cold, but EOS yeah wait ‘til snow comes in winter- EOS well I’ve been-
I’ve been riding it since the middle of- since the middle of January,
so EOS oh, right EOS you know, I’ve been out- I’ve been out there in
the cold and- and everything like that, you know, with me long johns
on EOS underneath me thermals so, I erm, I can, I’ll be- plan to be
riding it until it starts snowing and getting icy, so, then it’ll go
in the garage until I can get it out again EOS yeah EOS oh, depends on
the job front, I might get a car but the insurance- insurance EOS a
cheap one, insure it for a month or something? EOS insure it- yeah,
just insure it for a month EOS get on **anon** EOS erm, I’m al- I’m
already on **anon** EOS oh, that’s good EOS but, you know, she uses it
for work going back and forward to Swinton every day told her to get a
motorbike but she won’t have any of it EOS I can imagine **anon** on a
motorbike EOS ah EOS I told her, you know, it won’t cost you anything
EOS get her a sidecar for yours EOS yeah You need to count to five. EOS One, two, three, four, five. EOS And
Veronica **anon**. EOS go on, it’s gonna be horrible this EOS Go on!
EOS One, two, three, four, five. EOS Yeah that’s fine, okay off you go
EOS Okay. EOS Er were there lots of kids with you when you were
playing up? Playing up, growing up EOS Er not partic- not particularly
cos I lived like down one of the back streets, so I think there was
about six kids on our road and they were all different ages but we all
still played together. EOS Oh that’s- that’s nice EOS what was the
best or funniest memory from when you were young? EOS Erm funniest? I
can’t think of a funny time EOS Erm oh when me and **anon** and
**anon** like they were my best friends when I was really young and we
were having a sleep over at mine. It’s not gonna sound funny now EOS
but erm having a sleepover at mine and I used to have big glass doors
going into the conservatory. EOS yeah EOS And we pulled the curtains
across while **anon** went upstairs and closed the doors and erm she
was running away from something and ran straight into the doors EOS oh
no EOS and onto the floor it was very funny at the time EOS What was
yours erm funniest childhood memory then? EOS I don’t think erm- I
don’t remem- remember having much memories of when I was a kid
actually. EOS I genuinely don’t, I think I took too many knocks on my
head when I was younger EOS aww EOS I think one of the best ones is
that- Mum told me the other day, it was when she used to go down to
spa at **anon** she used to put me in my little trike, and I used to-
she said I used to just cycle along like this, going crazy with the
li- the shopping in the front basket, EOS aww EOS just going, peddling
and peddling and peddling. I used to think I was superman EOS So fast
going everywhere, used to run everywhere. EOS yeah EOS How many sis-
how many brothers and sisters do you have, do you get- EOS Er two
sisters. EOS Do you get along? EOS no. EOS No . EOS Well we do at
times like we have our moments. We love each other on days and hate
each other on other days. EOS Just cos we share a room I think it gets
a bit intense at times. EOS yeah EOS It’s not too bad though is it?
You just argue a hell of a lot EOS and you’re all stubborn, it’s well
annoying EOS What funny things are there to do in your community? Not
funny, fun EOS What- what did you say? There’s not a lot to do but now
like we’ve all got a bit older and we can all start driving and stuff,
we can obviously go further away and there’s obviously quite a lot of
things to do. Bit of golf when it gets a bit boring. EOS But no-one-
no-one ever goes down with me EOS You’re obsessed now with the driving
range EOS There’s football and stuff but whatever floats your boat
really. I’m easily entertained I think. Erm are you going on holiday
this year? EOS Yeah with you ! EOS where are you going? EOS We’re
going erm, to Catalonia in Greece. EOS Catalonia. EOS yeah EOS yeah
EOS What, isn’t it Catalonia? EOS Yeah. EOS What’s it called? EOS You
said Cat- you said Catalonia. EOS Catalonia. EOS It’s Catalonia, just-
carry on! EOS anyway we’re going Catalonia, EOS ruining it EOS on
Tuesday for a week. EOS Erm it’s got like the blue lagoon and stuff
and nice beaches and turtle beaches. EOS very nice EOS Hopefully it’ll
be good weather for us. EOS Yeah. EOS It’s ninety at the minute. EOS
wow EOS Ooh- ooh, can’t wait! Er what extra activities did you get
involved in at school? EOS Erm trampolining at **anon**. Er we did-
that’s all I ever did trampolining and dance EOS were you a boring kid
when you were growing up? EOS I wasn’t boring I was just er had other
things to do. EOS Such as? EOS shut up! EOS No you say something you
got to elaborate on it. EOS What extra curricular activities did you
do? EOS Erm, depends at primary school there wasn’t much to do so I
just did erm, played a bit of- dabbled in a bit of rounders and EOS
ooh EOS and then realised it’s for girls and then started playing
football more. And then mum used to drive me to swimming every week
and like that EOS Didn’t she used to make you go for runs? EOS That
was later on, EOS when she thought I was putting on a bit EOS Bit of a
slave-driver EOS What kind of games did you play as a kid? EOS Erm it
depends where we went really, like at school there was always bulldog
and stuff,. EOS I love bulldog? EOS and football and catch EOS pretty
boring things tig what about you? EOS erm, tig, but some people call
it tag EOS yeah EOS But I call it tig. Erm hopscotch, skipping erm
British bulldog erm, rounders, hide and seek EOS Hide and seek? EOS
Yes I played hide and seek, all- EOS in a square playground EOS it
doesn’t ask what you played at school. EOS Ooh, oh right. . EOS Erm
what was the one where you had to get back to a place? Like you were
on two teams and one team had to catch you before you got back to-.
EOS Manhunt. EOS Manhunt. And that’s around it really. EOS Ah that’s
good then EOS What do you remember from your first day at secondary
school? EOS Erm-. EOS Or grammar whichever one. EOS On the first day
of grammar I was like on the verge of having a panic attack, I was so
nervous! EOS really? EOS I was feeling really sick and like cos I’d
like never been with boys before like, EOS I hadn’t been with boys for
like five years cos I went to an all girl’s school. Erm so it was just
like really weird to go into a different environment of like a mixed
school. EOS mm EOS So I was nervous. EOS oh, it wasn’t that bad
though, was it? EOS Oh and **anon** fainted EOS really? EOS in
assembly and I had to hold her up against the wall. EOS Why? Just- EOS
Erm, I don’t know it was the very first day of assembly and like we
all line up around the walls. Erm she just fainted in the middle of
it. And I was having to hold her up cos I didn’t know what to do, it
was awful. I think I cried a bit. EOS cos she was my only friend and
she’d fainted, it was awful. EOS How would you describe erm the local
people? EOS Local people? EOS Yeah, you know, like EOS Well, from
where I live it’s quite rough at the end of my road. But on my street
itself it’s quite peaceful and nice. Erm friendly, everyone says hello
to each other like, known them all our lives really. Erm but at the
other end of the road-. EOS The dark side of the road. EOS It’s a bit
different . EOS Come to the dark side! EOS No it’s scary at the other
end of the road. EOS Like when you walk past, like they don’t look at
you, they don’t like give you that little smile that other strangers
might do, it’s weird. EOS Oh right, okay, did- EOS mm EOS did you ever
go caravanning when you were a kid or camping? EOS I used to go
camping, yeah and we used to travel France. EOS oh, EOS Erm camp-
going Eurocamp with the family. But never really did caravanning.
Didn’t you? EOS Yeah we were hardcore caravanners EOS We were! I
remember the first one we went to, we went to Dorset and erm, in the
middle of the night, this dog started barking on the campsite EOS oh
no EOS and we looked out the window and there was erm- the ca- caravan
opposite was on fire cos so- EOS Are you joking? EOS No someone had a
chip pan and they had a fire and they put the wrong blanket over and
it just went, ‘.’ EOS oh no EOS Up in smoke and the a- the awning was
going crazy and the guy was out but-. EOS Did the fire brigade come?
EOS Yeah they did, obviously cos it was a fire EOS oh, no necessarily,
it could have been a small one. EOS No it was really good one, it was
a good holiday that actually, we went erm on fossil beach. Not fossil
beach it’s like a beach with all like erm clay, EOS mm EOS sandstone
walls EOS and erm it had like, what are they called? The little snail
things that they had. EOS Your fossils. EOS yeah EOS Dinosaurs, the
little- what are they called? EOS Fossils EOS No they’re n- they’re
animals I’m trying to think what they’re actually called. Oh it
doesn’t matter. EOS wossils EOS Wossils . EOS Did you move house at
all when you were younger? What memories do you have of this? EOS Erm
I did move house when I was younger cos I was born in Salford and- but
I- I think I moved when I was about two so I don’t really remember
much of it. EOS mm EOS But we had some- I remember showing you some
videos of when I was younger as a kid at **anon**. EOS And mum used to
have this- it used to have towers of pots that stacked up on top of
each other. And we used to have a chair in the- like in the corner of
the room and Dad used to push the- this old pot thing and it used to
roll round the chair. And I used to be amazed by it and he must’ve
been doing it for about half an hour, I was like, just watching it go
round and round, EOS aww EOS I was amazed. Couldn’t get my hands on it
I was just like, ‘no!’ Have you ever moved house at all? EOS Er yeah
we moved from twenty two to fourteen, just down the road, erm, cos the
new hou- for like- tw- like from twenty two and onwards they’d already
been built, and the house we moved into was erm had been like a new
build. Erm so my mum was pregnant so we had to move into a bigger
house. Erm I loved the old house I remember- I just remember having
like erm a little tea set with erm little red love hearts on, erm and
I remember had- shut up EOS I didn’t say anything EOS We had erm- in
the old house we had like, what’s it called? Cement, and we just moved
in at the very start. EOS And the cats walked through it so we wrote
EOS aww EOS **anon** and **anon** in the cement and we had like a
special personalised gate, which had **anon** on the top cos that was
my dad’s football team and erm the cat’s name, but I only just got
that back like this year from my dad cos we left it there when we
moved house. It was really good. EOS aww EOS nice, erm what th- what
things- no, what local events do you think it’s important people know
about in your town? EOS you know, the us- usual stuff that goes on,
you know like markets and stuff. EOS Erm EOS we have some erm- what
are they called, car boot sales that we used to have in like a little
town hall. EOS That was good that brought the community together. Er I
don’t really understand the question I don’t think. EOS We have the
May fair. And you get the May fair queen and my little sister was the
queen one year. EOS aww EOS And you have to wear- and there’s like
floats and stuff, that go down. EOS Oh like down **anon** and stuff?
EOS Yeah. EOS I’m sure my cousin’s . EOS What about you? EOS Erm
there’s none really round here, is there? Th- the- did the- EOS g- g-
EOS oh, there’s the s- skiing thing EOS that’s happening at the chill
factor and it’s quite a erm big place. EOS Trains . EOS Oh and yeah
obviously we have Chassen Park round the corner. EOS And erm I think
it’s every Sunday they have erm the little toy trains that go out. EOS
steam train- Steam trains EOS The steam trains and people jump on them
and they go round. And I always think with United being so close, I
think it’s good when events go on there. Because it’s big and it gets
a lot of people . EOS I don’t know what you’re talking about EOS I
don’t think that answers the question but okay. EOS Do you have to
help out around the house a lot, or not? EOS Yeah I do. . EOS You’re
made to do it though aren’t you? EOS Oh, we’re made to do it you have
to do like the mopping the sweeping, the- helping out with the
cooking, which I don’t mind cos I like that. Then we have to do the
pots every night and make our own beds, Mum doesn’t do our room any
more, unlike some. EOS My mum loves me! Feral child. EOS my mum loves
me erm, but like we all get spends for doing different chores. EOS
yeah EOS so it was good EOS I used to get spends but she stopped that
when I moved out, EOS like, ‘no you’re not having that any more.’ EOS
How about you do you do chores around the house? EOS No not really, I
think I’m quite lucky in that respect I just sit around doing nothing
EOS and Mum runs round after everybody EOS She always complains about
it though no-one ever makes her do it. She always does it herself.
It’s every Sunday, like when you’re finally- you know when you’re
coming back from half-term and you’re going back to school on the
Sunday she’s stressing out she’s like, ‘oh- oh have you got your
dinner have you got your dinner, have you got your money, have you
cleaned- have you packed your bag, have you packed your bag?’ EOS Aww.
EOS And she gets herself in like a little panic and starts like
getting mad at everybody. EOS It’s like, ‘chill out for a minute!’ EOS
where are your parents from? EOS That’s a good question EOS I don’t
know, I think they both went to erm- both from **anon** I think. Yeah
Dad used to live down near **anon**, down that way. EOS mm EOS And I
don’t know where my mum used to live. Actually my mum might’ve used to
live down near the cemetery in **anon**. And she went to school with
erm **anon** dad, as well EOS ooh EOS she was in couple of years
below. EOS ooh EOS And I think they know each other actually. EOS ooh
EOS Really? EOS Yeah where are your mum and dad from? EOS Er I think
my dad’s from **anon**, I don’t- I’ve never known him to live anywhere
else. Erm and I think my da- mum’s from **anon**, ish maybe. EOS yeah
EOS good on her, good on her, EOS all my family are from round here
though actually. Like my nanna’s from **anon** I think. I think that’s
about it, that’s how foreign I am EOS no but- EOS Aren’t you like half
**anon** or something? EOS I’m not **anon** I’m like, heritage wise
like my Grandma- well my Nanna was **anon**, EOS really? EOS my
granddad was **anon**, my other grandma was **anon**. EOS My granddad
was- well is-. EOS English. EOS He’s- well no he’s half Scottish or
Irish, think it’s Scottish, which is the one that wears kilts. EOS
Scotland EOS he’s Scottish then, no cos we have our own erm, EOS does
he just- does he just walk around wearing a kilt all the time EOS No
but we have our own what’s-it-called, what’s the material the kilt’s
made out of? You know that pattern? EOS Oh yeah. EOS Tartan. EOS
Tartan we have our own **anon** tartan. EOS mm EOS We do! EOS That’s a
lie EOS no, it’s not EOS Do you have any pets at the moment or-? EOS
Er yeah I’ve got a dog called **anon**, full name **anon**. EOS No
we’ve got **anon** and the rabbit, **anon**. EOS That just gets like
left out in the cold EOS it doesn’t EOS for no love. EOS You don’t
have any pets do you? EOS No I don’t, I don’t have any middle names or
anything, EOS oh EOS my parents ju- . EOS What’s that got to do with
anything? EOS No, no, no- no, cos like you’ve got- you got- you’ve got
pets and stuff and I just get nothing. And like I remember when I was
growing up I always wanted to have a middle name like. EOS I don’t
know why I just thought it’d be cool to have a different middle name
EOS what’s that got to do with pets? EOS Cos I don’t have- I’m not
allowed any pets and I wasn’t allowed a middle name EOS Oh my god .
EOS That’s how it goes. You’ve got some strange middle names haven’t
you? Isn’t **anon** isn’t she? EOS Yeah EOS really? EOS It’s **anon**.
EOS Cos erm-. EOS I saw it on her passport the other day I was like,
EOS ‘hang on a sec **anon**?’ EOS She used to get so bullied for it.
But not now she just hates it, and then mine’s **anon** and **anon**
is **anon**. So they’re not weird. EOS What’s that after? EOS
**anon**. EOS Oh. EOS oh EOS See mine’d be Rory **anon** EOS Yeah
thanks for that I don’t even know what my dad’s name was actually, so-
no- EOS Wouldn’t your dad’s name have been the same? And your mum’s
name be different? EOS No my dad’s, dad’s name, EOS that’s not what
you said EOS Granddad’s name. EOS mm EOS Yeah I don’t know what- I
never met them, you see EOS Okay EOS You- you got the chance to meet
them. EOS What was your school like? Did you enjoy school? EOS Which
one? Which one? EOS Primary. EOS Er it was okay, it was just- it was a
bit of a dump to be honest. EOS It was like on the corner of a road
and EOS aww EOS you get all the little scally mums coming with their
kids with big Mac meals in the morning, in MacDonald’s bags, it was
horrible. But it wasn’t too bad, I was glad to get away. All the kids
were idiots as well, y- EOS No you hear stories like all of them, like
there’s one that lives behind me and he’s er he’s nearly been kicked
out of his house a few times. He’s been in trouble with police and
stuff. And just random stuff like that. I was lucky to get away from
it EOS I think, what was yours like? EOS I- I loved **anon** it was
amazing. Erm I think it’s changed quite a lot now. But at the time it
was just really good, it had really nice people there, everyone was
really friendly. EOS mm EOS it like- the people there like were of all
different types. EOS Like some were a lot rougher than others but
when- like I didn’t really notice it at such a young age, like I was
friends with anyone and everyone. And I still would be but I didn’t
really notice it, EOS mm EOS but now when you walk past you can see
the difference between EOS yeah EOS some of the kids and it is quite
rough. EOS Yeah I just hated our school cos th- you realise as you get
older, kids just take the mick out of anything. EOS Yeah EOS Like
everything it’s unreal. I remember one day, I w- went into school with
a cold sore on my lip. EOS Urgh. EOS And I was like- yeah they’re
horrible I know, but. And this guy’s going, ‘why’ve you got spaghetti
Bolognese on you?’ EOS I’m like, ‘it’s- it’s in the morning, why would
I be having spaghetti Bolognese in the morning? And it just doesn’t
dry on my lip like that.’ EOS I used to hate it EOS aww EOS But it was
nice when everyone was obviously friendly and stuff but you don’t
realise it when you’re a kid cos you’re so naïve at how stupid people
were EOS I know EOS And how easy it is to get dragged into random
social circles and stuff. EOS mm EOS Like I think I was lucky going to
**anon** instead of **anon**. EOS yeah EOS yeah. EOS Cos you see all
the different- all the lads that went there it’s- I know they’re not-
most of them are really nice but they’re just more prone to danger
not- or not danger but trouble. EOS yeah EOS How was **anon**? EOS
**anon**, what’s the question? EOS How was it? EOS It was good. EOS
there was quite a lot of bullying but like you kind of just got on
with it, like EOS like, no matter where you go there’s always gonna be
people who bully. But at the same time like you meet loads of good
people there, and so long as you get in the right friendship group,
then it was good. EOS mm EOS I went through about four, but EOS I
think we were lucky with bullying at **anon**. EOS yeah EOS It was
always EOS yeah, it’s- EOS dead friendly and stuff and EOS yeah EOS
Seem nice. EOS You always thought the ha- they’re rough people when
they didn’t hand their homework in EOS Not hitting teachers and stuff.
‘oh, you got a detention’ . EOS what is your best or funniest memory
from when you were young? EOS Erm I’m sure you’ve asked me this one
before, but-. EOS No what is your best memory? EOS I’ll answer it
again. EOS Not your funniest. EOS My best memory. Erm I don’t know,
not fr- I can’t remember much of my life, up until like, after year
five EOS I can’t remember anything before that really. But erm- I- I
know this is gonna make me sound sad but I remember when I was in year
five and I got picked to play for the year six football team, and I
was well happy EOS ahh EOS First person to do it through our school,
EOS ahh EOS and I was chuffed with that. I just EOS bless EOS used to
love football so, EOS what was yours? EOS Erm best memory was probably
like when we used to go camping in France, and erm, it was just like
the whole experience. Like when we were driving down, EOS yeah EOS me
and my dad u- well we all used to listen to like th- all the old
school music and I used to sit in the front with my dad, to try and
keep him- like to help him stay awake, and there was a time whenI
don’t know cos I was asleep but I’d- I’d fallen asleep EOS and songs
were still playing but I was still singing with my dad, even though I
was asleep. EOS ahh EOS And like we used to go canoeing a lot. And
then erm it was like, you were going down in your canoe. EOS And there
was a castle on one side, and you just think you’re going straight,
and the next minute you realise the castle’s gone on the other side
and it just used to feel like, proper magical. It was so good. But the
only thing was, every time we used to go, we used to fight, with my
sisters, EOS oh EOS like proper- get into proper screaming matches,
like in this canoe like EOS Just throwing each other overboard. EOS
literally we used to have so many water fights, and not the good kind.
EOS And erm-. EOS But with bad water EOS no, but no you know like just
like playful splash, but this was like, strangle splash EOS trying to
drown each other. EOS But like it kind of just made it, like when we
went a couple of years ago, like I couldn’t wait to go canoeing again,
just to see if it- if it was the same, it was really good. EOS Did you
ever get hurt when you were fighting in the water? EOS No. We did
nearly er- not drown, but get into quite a bit of danger once, cos me
and **anon** had been erm dec- we were in a canoe by ourselves, EOS so
we decided to get out, cos it was hot, and just hold on to the canoe.
But somehow we managed to lose the canoe. EOS So we were just floating
in this river going downstream. EOS And like, there was rapids coming
up. And then my dad had to like, swim over and like drag us to the
side, and then we had to catch up with the other canoe, like later on
in the stream. EOS It was pretty dramatic, but-. EOS Rescue mission
hopefully . EOS We never used to do anything like that. I think I
remember for year seven birthday, went erm rock- abseiling with my
uncle. We went tunnelling, EOS ooh EOS that was the only thing scary.
EOS I’d never do that. EOS Tunnelling? EOS Isn’t that where you go in
like, little holes? EOS Yeah it was pretty scary. EOS No, no I
couldn’t do that, claustrophobic. EOS Although my brother- when we-
when we went, **anon** came along with us and he was- dunno how old he
was, he must’ve been about eight or something, he had his- you know
those trainers you used to get with lights on, and we- EOS oh yeah EOS
he kept hitting the bottom of his shoes so they lit up EOS for that
split second. So we’d know we were okay. EOS But other than that it
was good. EOS Did you ever get her- hurt- did you ever get hurt whilst
playing when you were a kid? EOS Yeah a few times, remember once when
my dad’s- some guy my dad used to work with, his kid came round for
the day and we used to have one of those plastic slides in the back.
EOS And it used to feel so big when you were up there, but he’s a
little kid who’s younger than me, and he pushed me over the edge EOS
of the top of the slide and I broke my collar bone. EOS oh my God EOS
Did you? Didn’t know that. EOS ooh, EOS Yeah, sorry EOS thanks EOS
really? EOS Yeah EOS didn’t know that EOS Yeah, and I was in hospital
obviously, I was a crip EOS for a few weeks EOS What do you have to do
if you break your collar bone, do you get like- ? EOS It’s just a
sling, you don’t- you’re not even in a cast, I think it’s just a arm
sling. EOS aww EOS I can’t remember though and I remember when I was
learning to ride the bike, I- I- and I can picture exactly where it is
on the street as well, riding my bike I was going along and all of a
sudden I just went- like fell on my side, EOS and I don’t know why and
I hit- hit my head on the tree and it killed EOS And I remember
playing in the back and I tripped over and I hit my side of me head on
the little fence panel thing, the concrete fence panel on the side of
that. EOS Aww. EOS And my friend got sent home. EOS it’s like, ‘I
think you’d best go home now, he’s hurt.’ He was like, ‘okay.’ I
blamed it on him, so- . EOS Did you ever used to have kids round your
house when you were younger? At like primary school, for tea? EOS Yes.
My house was the house to be- EOS to be at, it was so good like, we
always used to have like- like one night a week me **anon** and
**anon** used to go for each- each other’s house for tea. And then erm
we always used to have Halloween parties. Which used to like- I think
I’d still be scared now EOS like we- we had like the catflap that goes
out to the outside of the house and my dad stuck his hand out like
with the glove on and my dad just like when people were coming round,
‘I’ve lost my glove, if you notice it, like let me know. And like just
bring it in to the house.’ And then we put erm, nuts or something down
the side of the house, and it was all dark and we were walking down,
and my mum was like, ‘oh these are the cockroaches, don’t worry about
them.’ EOS yeah EOS And like, now it doesn’t sound scary but like it
was and then erm someone went to go grab the glove. EOS And my dad
grabbed her hand and literally I think it was **anon**, cried. EOS It
was so awful . And then we had like a hole in the table and my dad’s
head was un- like up through the hole but he had like a something
covering it, so when you went to get your piece of cake or whatever
was meant to be under there, and me Dad’d be like, ‘blar- aargh!’ EOS
with a mask on or something, it was really good. EOS So erm- we always
used to have like birthday parties and have magicians and stuff over,
it was good EOS I remember my birthdays as a kid. Think- think the one
I remember the most we had erm- erm what’s it called now? Bouncy
castle in the back garden EOS right EOS oh yeah EOS and it absolutely
hammered it down that night. EOS And the guy was sat in his van for
about three hours waiting for it to die down, he was just like this,
‘ahh’ EOS Everyone had gone home already and he was just there for
about three hours after EOS aww EOS Waiting for the weather to go, it
was good. I used to love birth- kid’s birthday parties. You used to
get so many random toys and stuff EOS And the party bags afterwards,
EOS yeah EOS yeah, little bits of cake EOS they were amazing. You used
to always get like little whistles and stuff and-. EOS Yeah and sweets
and stuff. EOS The little ball things. EOS I remember we used to go
**anon** and for dessert we always used to get erm vanilla and
strawberry cake- no not cake erm, ice cream EOS and with erm jelly as
well, oh it was horrible but it was so good as a kid, so much sugar at
once EOS did you not have any parties like that? EOS No EOS I remem-
remember once when JJB first opened and you know they had a little
play area there? EOS Yeah EOS oh yeah. EOS And they had the- the one
half of a football pitch and someone had- er someone invited me to
their party there, said they were having it at JJB. So I was saying to
Mum, ‘oh, it’ll be a football party.’ So I had my- had my whole
football kit on, my shin pads and everything. I went there, we were in
the bloody play area, EOS I looked like I’d been padded up for war
rather than for playing tig in the play area. EOS I was running round
with my shin pads on and stuff EOS I was safety proofed. EOS Was that,
was it alphabet zoo? EOS oh, in Sale EOS The one that used to have the
big blue slide. That was like nearly- well felt vertical I don’t know
if it was. EOS Yeah. EOS Oh it was amazing and there was erm-. EOS You
had to get in those sacks didn’t you? EOS Yeah. EOS to go in it EOS It
was so good and you used to have those big like- what are those like
cylinders and you had to squeeze through the two of them? EOS Oh yeah.
EOS And then they used to have one where you used to have to go
through like four but kids used to get stuck in there, EOS so they had
to close it down, like that area. Because like ch- EOS did they? EOS
yeah kids were getting stuck in there. EOS I remember when- EOS I was
always so scared to go through them. EOS I had a birthday party there
and you used to- you always used to sit on there. And we’ve got a
video at home and I had a stiff neck. Oh my gosh! EOS no, I couldn’t
move, I was at the end of the table like, ‘urgh!’ EOS trying to blow
my candles out like ‘’ not moving my neck at all EOS that’s so funny
EOS But when- when they did that they- they did erm- used to play
party games up there as well. EOS mm EOS yeah EOS And seeing myself
dancing as a kid, oh my god it must’ve been so embarrassing. Like,
‘that’s not my kid there!’ EOS And they used to get the inflatable
slide out for you as well, when we’d all finished and stuff EOS yeah
EOS Yeah so when you finished the party and went down the slide. EOS
bouncing down feeling sick going, ‘argh!’ EOS Food coming up. I used
to- I don’t think I ever went down that blue slide. Think I was too
scared. I think I might’ve b- I think I might’ve been once. EOS I
loved it. EOS It’s like a vertical drop! break my neck or something
EOS it was amazing and you went to the ball pool at the bottom. EOS
Yeah. EOS and do you remember the massive ball pool and you could like
hide underneath. EOS Yeah, and then get stood on. EOS It was so good.
Yeah EOS Oh that’s a risk you’ve got to take when you’re playing hide
and seek. EOS I used to love that I absolutely used to love it. EOS We
should go. EOS I- I miss being a- it’s closed down EOS Aww EOS Yeah, I
miss being a kid when you’re- you see some stuff and you’re just like-
and you see like your toys now and you’re like, ‘how did I play with
them for so long?’ EOS Yeah like Barbies, like, Oh well maybe not you,
but maybe like Ken or something or action man. EOS well EOS But like
literally you’d play for hours. And what do you do with just a doll?
EOS yeah EOS It’s crazy. EOS I remem- yeah- I- I was biker mice from
mars and power rangers, mine were EOS I used to have a little power
rangers doll that my cousin got from erm, I think it was Russia. EOS
And I slept with it for ages EOS and I remember when I thought, ‘right
I’m going into secondary school now’ EOS ‘I need to get rid of it.’
EOS And I remember it used to take me about an hour to get to sleep
without it. EOS aww. EOS aww EOS but it was horrible, I know EOS bless
EOS it’s not as bad as my brother though, when he was in like year
six, he went to the- the bear factory and got a- a stuffed cat. EOS
aww EOS that’s sad, mine was a power ranger. His was a cat EOS erm
describe your least favourite teacher. EOS Least favourite teacher, oh
**anon**. EOS yeah EOS Oh my god he was so annoying he was so
patronising. EOS What did he teach? EOS Chemistry, it was- oh he used
to froth at the side of the mouth and everything EOS ooh. EOS he looks
like a rat EOS Like he was really nice if you wanted to do well but I
remember in A- level chemistry, he just annoyed me. And he was so
patronising. Cos I couldn’t do it, I got into A-level and I thought,
‘yeah I got an A at- in science in gcse.’ EOS then you go into chem.-
chemistry doing A-level like going, ‘wait a minute I don’t actually
know anything about science.’ EOS I used to absolutely hate him.
What’s yours? EOS Erm I’ve always got on with all my teachers, I was a
goody two shoes but I remember in erm **anon** not **anon** erm
**anon** there was this really like chubby lady teacher that er had
really dark, curly hair. And erm she was always screaming at all the
kids. And you’d hear her like three rooms down. So you were always EOS
**anon** EOS you were always really scared, like to speak to her. And
one day I had to go and like tell her something, I was like sent from
class to go tell her. And I was like stood behind her waiting for her
to finish talking, but she started walking backwards and she fell on
top of me. EOS And I was literally like tiny EOS when I was little and
I was just laid underneath her and this massive woman was like on top
of me. But she couldn’t get up EOS And people had to help her up and I
just thought like, ‘I could never live this down,’ EOS I wouldn’t ever
speak to her again she was so scary. Can you imagine it though, like
this massive woman like tipping over on top of you? EOS Just like a
turtle, not being able to get up EOS it’s like, ‘’. Did you ever used
to do show and tell at school, like EOS Er yeah we always used to. Erm
I don’t remember what I brought, I used to love it though. EOS I think
I w- in year six I remember bringing in my hamster EOS but, no I used
to- and it was so strange cos everyone picked like- brought in these
interesting animals, and I brought in a bloody hamster EOS aww EOS aww
EOS The only interesting story was it tried to escape once EOS The
most boring pet life ever EOS aww EOS You were only ever allowed that,
weren’t you? You’ve not had anything else, pet wise? EOS I’ve had a
couple of goldfish from school fairs and stuff EOS Nice! EOS I used to
love our school fairs. They were really good. EOS were they? EOS You
used to have your little, erm, your sponge to throw at your teachers
and stuff. EOS yeah EOS did you? EOS Yeah did you not have that? EOS
no. EOS Oh you were from **anon**, they were probably throwing rocks
at teachers EOS Yeah but when you were a kid, no-one could hit the
teachers so it was a pretty safe bet of doing it, wasn’t it? EOS sure
EOS And sports day as well. EOS I loved sports day. EOS and I remember
the sports day that we had in **anon**, we used to have osprey, eagle,
hawk and kestrel little team- teams that you were in. EOS How do you
remember? EOS It was four birds it’s not hard EOS Well it could’ve
been pigeon or something EOS Why do you want pigeon as a team it’s
just EOS ‘I’ll go pigeon’ EOS No it’s like lots of different types of
birds, it’s kind of good to remember EOS Yeah it was it was really fun
though. EOS Did you ever used to have that erm- like the two different
buckets, one was filled with water and one wasn’t and you used to have
like containers with holes in EOS yeah EOS and you had to like fill it
up and run really quick, and fill it up cos it was like leaking, and
it was your team that erm- sorry and your team had to get like the
most water in the bucket, like the quickest or something. EOS We were
never that equipped as a school EOS Our school was so bad it was
unreal. EOS Really? EOS - EOS Did you ever get into trouble for
something at school? EOS Not rea- no EOS Were you ever blamed- were
you ever blamed for something that wasn’t your fault? EOS Er I never
really got into trouble in primary school, I used to be like really
good. And th- there’s a picture in the reception, I’m not su- sure if
it’s still there. And someone took a picture of our class when we were
in year one and everyone else was like- like talking and laughing. And
one of them- I remember one of the guys, he was round the camera like
doing tongue out like that at the camera, EOS and I was there in the-
EOS in the corner with my lip, my finger against my lip and I was just
like, EOS I used to sit like that. I must’ve sat like that for about
four years just like, ‘yes’ EOS proper goody two shows EOS I used to
be scared of getting in trouble I think. EOS aww EOS But I remember in
year six when we had erm, after the eleven plus and we got pay back
time. And we got to do like fun stuff outside. EOS mm EOS oh yeah EOS
And didn’t do any lessons. I remember we were- me and three other lads
were talking, we had to go and sit outside and do a bloody reading
assessment. It was so annoying and everyone else was sewing, as g- as
sad as that sounds EOS did you ever used to- we had to make these- our
own little erm pencil cases. EOS mm EOS And do the little sewing
patterns on it, it was really good. EOS well done EOS Thanks, I used
to hate getting in trouble though. EOS I remember when I got my first
detention at **anon**. I forged the signature- like the signature so
me mum wouldn’t find out. EOS I used to hate it. EOS What was your
detention for? EOS Erm having a naked pen in foundation studies. EOS
You know the one that you’d turn it round and the- the bikini costume
comes off? EOS It was **anon**- it was **anon** br- brother’s and he’d
robbed it and brought it in. And me, **anon** and **anon** used to sit
in a three. EOS How old were you? EOS We were in year seven, so like
twelve EOS **anon** brought it in and me and **anon** were just like,
‘aargh!’ EOS staring at this pen. EOS And the teacher came up and was
like, ‘what’s that?’ And we were like, ‘nothing nothing!’ EOS And we
all had to stay- we had a a half an hour detention at dinner EOS aww
EOS Oh that’s awful. EOS It was EOS that’s so funny EOS I felt like a
badass after that though EOS Going round like nothing could touch me,
it was just, ‘I’ve got a detention, so what?’. Did you get in trouble?
EOS Er no cos like I said I was always a goody two shoes so when- EOS
Even at secondary school? EOS Even at secondary school. Ev- everyone
got like- you know like you used to get class detentions, for
everybody speaking? They always used to like pull me up at the end and
say, ‘don’t bother coming back for the detention at the end of the
day.’ I was like, ‘yes!’ EOS Bet everyone hated you EOS they did EOS
‘Get lost’ EOS ‘why isn’t Veronica **anon** here?’ and I was like,
‘well, I’m good’ EOS and then er at primary school, whenever anyone
used to get in trouble and like need an alibi, erm, they always used
to come to me and say, ‘tell them that I didn’t do this,’ EOS ‘tell
them I was somewhere else.’ And I would be like- cos I was always cool
with the boys EOS and erm, there was this guy called **anon** and like
you know like at primary school you weren’t allowed to swear or
anything? EOS And erm he called a dinner lady something like a rude
word EOS and- or like threw rocks at her or something like that EOS
And erm he came up to me and he was like, ‘Veronica **anon** I’m going
to get expelled you have to like, lie for me.’ And I was like, ‘oh no
but you’re a boy so okay.’ EOS And I was like, ‘no he was here with me
we were reading.’ And then like, they completely believed me and then
the teacher- well the dinner lady got in trouble. EOS Got sacked yeah
lying EOS she did for ma- for making like allegations, but she was a
horrible dinner lady anyway. That was like the worst thing I ever did.
EOS I remember our dinner ladies we used to- there always used to be
like the ty- the stereotypical nasty one that they were always scared
of EOS and then there was a nice one as well that didn’t care EOS aww
EOS just like- oh and we used to have our wet day books. When it was
raining outside and we had to draw pictures inside it. EOS Really? EOS
They were like the most boring EOS lunchtimes of my life, cos we used
to have- EOS I loved drawing. EOS We used to have our- I think it was-
we had an hour and I think it got split into like when you were in
year three and up, you could- as soon as you’d finished you could go
out. EOS And have your dinner but when you were in like reception to
year two you had to wait ‘til half past EOS aww EOS before you could
go out. And we used to have to just draw in these books and it was so
boring. It was unreal EOS There’s only so many times I can draw stick
men EOS or play noughts and crosses with myself EOS With yourself? EOS
yeah EOS erm, can you remember a good story that your parents slash
grandparents used to tell you? EOS Not so much no. I don’t- no, er my
granddad died when I was younger EOS aww EOS so- I- like I said I
can’t remember anything from when I was younger anyway, so EOS And my
nanna- she doesn’t know what day it is, so EOS ooh EOS so not really,
no. EOS Aww. EOS There’s some interesting ones that you listen to when
you’re growing up but- nothing like major. EOS That sticks, yeah. EOS
Yeah, have you? EOS Not really interesting or good, it’s just-. EOS Do
you- do you remember when your granddad made everyone believe that he
got shot in the war? EOS That was what I was gonna say EOS oh right.
EOS why? EOS well, my n- like when they were in the war like my
grandma and granddad like, they were ov- over in Germany. EOS yeah EOS
And er my nanna actually did get shot and erm- a bomb exploded and the
shrapnel like went all in her skin and stuff. But she was okay,
survived, rah, rah, rah, but my granddad had a massive hole in his
neck and he told us all that erm, he’d been shot in the neck in the
war. EOS Erm told my mum, mum believed it for fifteen, twenty odd
years. However long it was and we believed it up un- like, up until a
couple of years ago. And he it just came out one day, saying like he
didn’t really get shot and had an operation. EOS I was like, ‘how can
you tell us our entire lives that you’d got shot and made us think
like you’re some hero,’ EOS yeah EOS and he just wasn’t. EOS He just
had like some an removed or something for whatever reason it was. EOS
You was gullible though EOS No but you should’ve- you’ve seen the
hole. Like- it’s like a good thumb like in to his neck. It’s weird.
EOS do you not think he would have died? EOS I- I- When you think
about it now, EOS but like you wouldn’t really doubt it if you’d been
told-. EOS Did your dad know that it wasn’t real? EOS Er I don’t know,
maybe. EOS My- my parents never used to play tr- tricks on me. I just
used to cry if they did . EOS You’re such a baby. EOS Stroppy kid EOS
I remember when we used to go to Macro and erm they used to have the
erm escalators that were flat. EOS mm EOS And obviously-. EOS Oh I
love those. EOS I remember- I never used to remember going erm, to the
airports when I was a kid and I u- I just used to run up and down and
up these escalators cos they were flat I was like, ‘yay!’ EOS But now
you see them at asda and they’re just annoying EOS Especially when
they say, ‘you’re approaching the landing Please take care!’ EOS ‘take
care!’ EOS yeah EOS Where else have you been on holiday then, is it
just France and stuff, or-. EOS When we were little we’ve been to-
used to travel France like I said, and er we’ve been to lots of
different places in Greece, erm America a couple of times, erm trying
to think. EOS I’d love to go to America. EOS It’s amazing the food’s
amazing, really EOS Why cos there’s just loads of it? EOS Yeah EOS mm,
yeah EOS pretty much! Like at breakfast you’d have like the proper
American pancakes, scrambled eggs, bit of crispy bacon, syrup, and
like you think , ‘how disgusting does that sound?’ It’s not. EOS They
must put something in there just to make you think it’s nice EOS but
it’s really nice and the burgers. Like when me and mum used to go when
we- when I was younger, to visit her brother, erm we just used to have
to share a meal because EOS yeah EOS I couldn’t physically eat one and
it was a waste of money and mum would never eat it all so we always
used to have to share, but erm EOS super large portion. EOS We used to
go to this place called er the Crab Bucket, or something, and you used
to just get like a massive bucket of unlimited crab claws. EOS oh God
EOS And that was amazing. EOS Oh it sounds it yeah EOS It was really
nice. EOS Was it like our KFC? EOS They have crab claws we’ve got
Kentucky fried chicken EOS No it was really good, what about you? EOS
Erm when I was younger I used to go to Majorca a couple of times but
then we gave up on that side of things EOS And got the caravan EOS And
then we used to go to Dorset and Cornwall and remember the trips to
Cornwall, were over like thirteen hours, just stuck in traffic
constantly EOS mm EOS Really? EOS That’s when dad decided to invest in
some erm DVD players for the back seats EOS so we wouldn’t get too
bored. EOS aww EOS Then he used to shout at us telling us to ‘turn it
down, it’s distracting him while his driving’ EOS And the classic, ‘if
you don’t shut up I’ll turn round!’ EOS Fifteen hours in. EOS and
then- and then later on we’ve ventured to France and that’s when I got
too tall for the caravan and got kicked outside into a tent. EOS Oh no
EOS On my own. That was the last straw I think I was like, ‘I’m not
going back.’ And then later on we went to- back to Spain I think, for
the last- Oh we went to **anon** as well in Lanzarote. EOS mm EOS Like
a sports complex. EOS Could not have a hot summer holiday like that
though. EOS No it wasn’t a summer holiday it was in April though, was
in like April, March for Easter holiday. EOS Yeah but th- wasn’t that
your main holiday? EOS No I don’t think so. EOS I’m sure it was EOS
Probably went caravanning after it. EOS Caravans. EOS No I used to be
sca- I used to hate like flying though. EOS mm EOS Cos like- like when
you’re going up and it like drops that bit, EOS yeah EOS when it’s
going up. EOS I love it. EOS Man it makes me stomach turn upside down.
Me mum’s always like ‘oh!’ the on- EOS the only one on the plane
that’s screaming EOS aww EOS I went round my auntie and uncle when
they took erm her daughter- their daughter and her husband and they
were filming her when my auntie, when she was taking off. EOS Oh my
god she looked like she was having a panic attack, like, white knuckle
ride gripping onto the- onto the side EOS ‘no’ EOS Just like head
straight back into the seat and it was like, ‘please don’t take off,
please don’t take off!’ it was so funny but it’s just weird it runs in
the family stuff like that. Like I won’t- I won’t go on
rollercoasters. EOS mm EOS That’s cos of your mum. EOS Unless- unless
there’s peer pressure on me EOS l- if- peer pressure’s the worst
thing, like when we went camping, I wouldn’t have gone into the lake
if no-one else did. EOS Really? EOS Mm, it was freezing . EOS Yeah, I
was really tempted to go in but I didn’t get enough peer pressure. EOS
I get- I- I always get scared of like erm when I’m swimming in the
sea, even when- EOS crabs? EOS no when it’s quite deep, like- I dunno
I just like picture getting dragged down by something EOS yeah, mm EOS
Like a shark or something. EOS Yeah. Even though I know it wouldn’t
happen. EOS I don’t like being out of my depths in the sea. EOS But I
don’t know why, it’s scary, when I can’t see the bottom it’s- EOS yeah
EOS freaks me out. EOS yeah EOS Like I used to be scared when we used
to go on the ferries to France, like if it crashed, and I was always
thinking, ‘well you’d die wouldn’t you? You wouldn’t be able to get
out.’ EOS aww EOS I was scared. EOS very negative. EOS It is. EOS It’s
me mum that EOS yeah EOS aww EOS And like if you go to like Greece or
somewhere, like the- the sea’s proper crystal clear, and you can see
everything. So it’s no too bad, c- EOS yeah EOS I remember when we
went to Bulgaria with the lads, the sea there was horrible. Like it
was really hot EOS mm EOS but it was just filled with jellyfish and
rubbish and- EOS eurgh EOS eurgh EOS you couldn’t really go in it. EOS
couldn’t you? EOS And it was all dirty and it was horrible. EOS mm EOS
So not a big fan of seas. Well I am but-. EOS ni- only nice ones. EOS
yeah EOS If it- yeah. EOS I don’t think I’d ever go in seas here, like
they must be so cold. EOS mm EOS Yeah the amount of just rubbish
that’s in it, it’s horrible. EOS eurgh sewage. EOS Y- you see little
scraggy kids just weeing in it don’t you EOS That is their toilet in
Blackpool it’s- it’s- EOS ‘do you need the toilet?’ EOS No, but like
everyone used to pee in the pool when they were a kid and stuff and
like-. EOS I didn’t. EOS Yes you did EOS First I’ve heard of it EOS I
don’t mean like ten year old kid, EOS I mean like smaller. EOS When
you were- when you were younger, I know. Just kidding, just kidding.
EOS right, erm- go on, EOS right, go on, what were you gonna say? EOS
I was gonna ask a question. EOS I was just gonna say- it doesn’t
matter, I- EOS I was just gonna carry on the conversation but ask me a
question, it’s okay. EOS I’ll answer it EOS Do you want me to ask- ask
you a question? Erm . EOS There’s- I- I w- I’m just gonna carry on
with my conversation EOS Like I hate how my mum and dad used to- well
my mum especially used to EOS ooh EOS make me scared of like, loads of
random things. Like rollercoasters and- EOS mm EOS sh- cos she was
always like, ‘don’t go near the edge you might die!’ EOS And when
you’re a kid you’re like, ‘will I?’ EOS And it kind of sticks with
you, doesn’t it, and like EOS yeah EOS yeah EOS subconsciously you
don’t realise it and then- EOS oh EOS Stupid cat EOS sorry EOS Are y-
are you not an animal lover then? EOS Oh I love animals, they just
don’t seem to love me. . EOS No er it’s completely different like, in
my family. Like- like, my mum was always scared but my dad was always
erm encouraging me. Like to go on rollercoasters and EOS mm EOS like
proper like, ‘seek the thrill’ EOS Which I still do now. EOS like I
remember when we went to ‘Go Ape’ in- first time we went to France. I
did the first one. But I remember getting stuck on like- there’s like
a skateboard EOS aww EOS and you have to attach yourself to the top of
it. And you got to make sure your karabiners are the right way round.
And I attached one of them the wrong way. EOS And I was sliding down
and li- I got like a quarter of the way across on this skateboard EOS
that was really loose, EOS I was holding on for dear life. And I
realised I couldn’t go any further cos one of my karabiners was stuck
round the other pieces of wire, EOS and I was like, ‘no!’ Like felt
like I was gonna die up there So I had to drag myself back and unhook
myself. And I think I was scared form then on. EOS Yeah. Like I
dragged you ‘go ape’ the other- like EOS yeah EOS couple of months ago
didn’t I? EOS Yeah. EOS Was it that scary then? EOS Yeah it was pretty
scary EOS I’m not gonna lie. I’m not a big fan- EOS traumatised. EOS
I’m not a big fan of heights EOS You’re not a big fan of anything. EOS
Well I am it’s just like heights, I just dunno- I know nothing’s ever
gonna happen but I just feel like, what if a big gust of wind comes
and like just EOS You’re like, attached. EOS I know I am, but, no like
when you took me it was- it’s one of those things where you don’t want
to do it but then, when you’ve done it you’re like ‘yeah, let’s do it
again, let’s do it again, let’s do it again!’ EOS Yeah, I love those
things. EOS But when you’re up there you’re like, ‘no no please
don’t!’ EOS it’s a horrible circle. EOS It’s funny like, watching all
the like the really girly girls go around and like getting stuck. EOS
Yeah. EOS And you just think- I’m always like, ‘just hurry up!’ EOS I
get really restless. EOS I- in France we met this erm- Mum and dad met
this couple, and they had two kids of a similar age to me and **anon**
and erm we went with them to go ape. And it was the one- the time when
I got stuck on the skateboard. And this guy’s dad had to get erm
abseiled down by the people cos he was scared. EOS Why? EOS He
couldn’t do it he was scared of heights. EOS How embarrassing. EOS And
his little ten year old kid did it and he was- he was like hugging
this tree, waiting for the people to climb up and-. EOS Aww. The man
or the ten year old? EOS The man. R It was kind of like, ‘see dad? I’m
not a girl.’ EOS aww EOS aww bless. EOS And he had to wait there for
like half an hour while they got all the equipment sorted up and
stuff, and get carried down. EOS aww EOS Aww I couldn’t do that, I’d
rather just finish than have the shame of s- of another full grown man
carrying-. EOS E- everyone watching you, ‘ha ha!’ EOS Exactly cos
you’re keeping everyone else like up, cos you can’t like cross
people’s paths when you’re up there. EOS yeah EOS Hmm, I know. EOS I’d
be so annoyed. I’d be like, ‘hurry up!’ EOS Cos you’re impatient
though, that’s the thing isn’t it? EOS You g- just go to think like- I
don’t think- you just gotta- it’s weird, the connotation of when you
are- as a kid. How much it stays like that. And that’s about it
really, isn’t it? EOS Yeah. EOS Right three EOS yep EOS go on EOS one, two, three EOS yeah, that’s fine,
okay, whenever you’re ready, thank you EOS right, we’re okay, oh, what
was your best- what was your best or funniest memory when you were
young? I don’t know, erm, EOS well EOS go on, if you can think of
anything you go first EOS I wouldn’t- I- I wouldn’t exactly call it
the best or funniest but it w- an incident that’s always stuck into my
mind, I wasn’t a- I wasn’t a lover of dolls, but me Mother’d dressed
this doll up for Christmas, and it was all in green georgette, I’ve
never forgotten that EOS oh right EOS and I’d gone out shopping with
me Mother, we lived up near Hope hospital then and I’d gone out with
her, to Eccles, and when I came back, the doll was on the settee,
leant up against a- a cushion, and me two older brothers were there, I
hadn’t got the younger one then, and erm, they’d scooted out of the
house you see when we came home and when I picked the doll up, and,
they’d gagged it EOS and I took the gag off and when I took the gag
off the face was split in half EOS ah no EOS oh, well, as I say, I
didn’t care for dolls at all when I was young EOS I still don’t,
they’ve got to be very pretty dolls for me to EOS oh right EOS so of
course I was- I was a mardy so I started EOS crying then, you know EOS
aww EOS so they were in trouble when me Dad came home from work cos
that was something- I treasured it because they didn’t have a lot of
money, you know, when we were children EOS yeah EOS so that’s EOS
that’s your thing EOS that’s my thought about my two brothers EOS
right, erm, EOS you alright love? EOS I think- I think erm, EOS
alright love EOS I think mine is erm, EOS right EOS going on erm,
going on holiday, erm, to Fleetwood, Knot End EOS oh yes EOS erm,
paddling in the paddling pool at Knot End I think that’s- that’s one
of my earliest memories when I was EOS **anon** gone out EOS only-
when I was only little EOS yes EOS you know, but that was a great
adventure to go to EOS yes EOS to Knot End EOS and to go on holiday
EOS yeah, go on holiday, yeah EOS yeah EOS we used to go to Fleetwood
EOS oh, well I went to Fleetwood EOS yes EOS as well cos I had
relatives that lived there so EOS yes EOS that was erm, EOS yeah EOS
that was good EOS me Mother always said, ‘when I get some money, and I
retire, I will come and live at Fleetwood’ EOS oh right, she never did
EOS which she never did EOS she never- she never had enough money to
buy a house there EOS no EOS yeah EOS no, I don’t know- I don’t know
how we- we did it because me Dad was out of work for ten years EOS
yes, my Dad was EOS when I was- when I was born, you know and erm EOS
mm EOS so erm, there was no money coming in cos you were means tested
then weren’t you EOS mmhmm EOS and- that’s going off the subject that
isn’t it EOS it is yes, really EOS see, we can talk EOS yeah, yeah,
well, yes, we can EOS yeah erm, were there lots of kids to play with
when you were growing up? No not, no, I didn’t- EOS I w- EOS no I
didn’t have- EOS yes I did, EOS oh EOS cause I lived in Salford then,
you know, in a terraced house, so there was plenty of children around
EOS mm EOS yes EOS no, well I lived in Wythenshawe, I was born in
Wythenshawe EOS and erm, lived there all me life ‘til getting married
but there weren’t- weren’t very many children EOS oh wasn’t there, no?
EOS no, no, not at all, no. Did you have to help out around the house?
No no, not at all, I had an- EOS no, no, not until- EOS what did you
do in your free time? EOS I was way, oh, I musta been in my twenties
before I started doing any housework EOS yeah EOS yes EOS what did you
and your family do in free time when you’re growing up? I were mainly
involved with church work, boys- girls brigade and- and the choir, and
Sunday school, and- EOS I was in the Brownies EOS that was- were you?
EOS yes EOS mm EOS and then in me teens I was in the girls training
corps EOS oh were you EOS and I played a trumpet EOS ahhh EOS I
couldn’t sing so I played the trumpet EOS here you are, what games did
you play as a kid? EOS ah, hopscotch EOS mmm, yeah EOS erm, rally
vino, erm, EOS oh I’d a- I’d a- a scooter, you know EOS oh, I had a
bike but it was EOS second-hand EOS oh I, yes, I had a bike that was
second hand EOS mm EOS first time on it I went down the kerb and fell
off it EOS oh well, that wasn’t very clever EOS didn’t have any
brothers and sisters EOS I had three brothers erm, one four year older
than me, one two year older, and one eight year younger than me EOS oh
right EOS who was always called, ‘our youngster’ EOS aww EOS yes EOS
can you remember a good story that your par- grandparents used tell
you oh, I don’t know about that, erm, oh EOS well me Grandma remem- I
remember her telling me that me Grandfather who I didn’t know, erm,
was carrying erm, a bo- a coffin downstairs, and suddenly a noise came
from the coffin EOS and they were frightened to death but it- it’s
obviously th- the body wind comes out when it’s- EOS mm EOS yes EOS
that’s right yes EOS and me Grandma used to laugh her head off about
it, she said, ‘you’re Granddad was worried to death about it’ EOS erm,
EOS did you ever get hurt- oh yeah- EOS one- o- one story- yeah, erm,
yeah, when erm when th- do you remember when Manchester was bombed EOS
yes I do mm EOS well that night of that raid, erm, it was, I think it
was a Saturday because we were going to church the following morning,
and church was in Moss Side EOS yes EOS and of course that’d got badly
hit, and when I got to Sunday school, the Sunday school t- our- my
Sunday school teacher, **anon** wasn’t there and nobody knew where she
was and erm, there was a search went out for her, and her house had
been bombed EOS bombed EOS and they found her, in her bed, three
streets away EOS th- st- away EOS in the loft of another house EOS oh
I know that- that happened in Salford with somebody but EOS and I can-
I can remember that EOS they- they were found on the ground you know,
EOS right EOS yeah, that was near the town hall in Salford EOS oh
right, right EOS did you get hurt whilst playing when you were a kid?
EOS oh yes, many a time EOS yeah, but a- but not- not badly- not badly
hurt, I was never badly- I had a lot of illnesses and erm, spent a lot
of time off school erm, so consequently when me Mother took me back,
unfortunately the teacher we had didn’t think there was any point in
teaching me cos I’d missed too much school EOS hmm EOS mm EOS and so I
could sit at the back of the class, and what I took in, I took in, and
what I didn’t, I didn’t, so she wasn’t interested in teaching me EOS
I- I was climbing EOS ooh EOS on the back- in the yard at home EOS oh
right EOS up the back door, to the- that goes out into the entry, and
it had slats across like that, thick ones you know, I’d climbed up and
then I slipped down, I cut me knee open, so of course, I had to go up
to Salford Royal EOS mm EOS and erm, I was going backwards and
forwards for six months with that because it- EOS were you? EOS yes,
it was stitched, EOS yeah EOS but the stitches broke EOS oh right EOS
and of course, you know, those days it was EOS yeah EOS and erm, so I-
that was one of my accidents EOS oh right EOS I was very good at
falling, even then Kristina **anon** EOS no I just had all the
ailments, measles, chicken pox, whooping cough, all the- all the lot I
had one after the other EOS oh- oh I didn’t, I just- I had measles EOS
yeah EOS I had German measles when I was- when I had **anon** EOS oh I
had German meas- EOS mm EOS I remember the doctor coming and saying,
‘why couldn’t you’ve had English measles, cos we’re fighting the
Germans’ EOS what kind of games did you play- Do you want outdoor
games there? EOS erm EOS whatever EOS played marbles EOS oh well s- we
have said some, haven’t we, oh yes that was another game EOS remember
playing marbles and- EOS I do remember, I took me brother’s marble bag
out ooh, and I couldn’t play marbles EOS oh right, so did you loss
them EOS so of course, I- I lost them EOS you lost them, oh dear EOS
oh, my word EOS yeah EOS he was me favourite brother, and erm, he
wasn’t me favourite after that day, not for a few days, no EOS no, no,
I bet, no EOS no, I bet he wasn’t your- you weren’t his favourite
either EOS I wasn’t his favourite girl, no EOS no erm, right, what’s
the next one EOS where did you go to school? I went to school in
**anon**, that’s where I was born, school was only round the corner, I
went from being five, to being fifteen, I never passed any exams, so I
was just at the same school, just went from one end of the field, EOS
to the other EOS to the other end of the field, infants and juniors
and seniors, that- that was me, until I left at fifteen EOS and I went
to one called **anon** in **anon**, Salford, then we moved up to near
**anon**, and it was **anon** EOS oh right EOS it was down a dirt
path, and erm, from there, we went back to **anon** and I went to
**anon**, then I passed the scholarship, clever so-and-so EOS erm, and
went to **anon**, and that had to close down because of the war EOS oh
right, EOS so erm, and then they opened a brand, new school, **anon**
it was called then EOS oh EOS and I finished up me schooling there EOS
oh right EOS so erm, EOS I didn’t enjoy school, as you can guess with
missing out so much, so my school days were not particularly happy
days at all EOS oh I enjoyed school EOS mm, and I don’t remember me
first day at school at all EOS but me Dad always used to say, ‘you’ll
be sorry when you leave you know’ EOS mm EOS and I was never sorry
when I left EOS no EOS no EOS no, I wasn’t either, no EOS ooh, what do
you remember from your f- EOS and then funnily enough I went into
another school, nursing schools, so EOS so you were schooling all your
life really EOS so I was at school again yeah EOS what do you remember
from your first day at school? EOS were you ever blamed for something
that wasn’t your fault? EOS well I was only three when I went EOS and
the story goes that, I was missing one day and me- me Mother was- went
looking for me and erm, I was found in the school playground where me
brother was going to, and I did it a couple of times and so in the end
he said, ‘oh, you can leave her’ EOS oh EOS aww EOS so that’s how I
started my school, at three EOS oh, at three EOS mm EOS oh right what
were your summer holidays like? Well summer holidays were, EOS as I
say were, during the war and that it was very difficult really wasn’t
it EOS mm EOS so I don’t know my- how my parents managed to take me on
holiday but we- we always went as I say, usually Clevelees, Fleetwood,
round there stay with erm, a relative did get as far as Torquay once
erm EOS well we used to go to Fleetwood, and we always stayed in a
boarding house where you- you did your own catering EOS that’s right,
yeah, yeah EOS it’s cheaper that way you see and the- EOS remember Mum
used to send a trunk on, in advance EOS did she, yes EOS yeah and then
take erm, provisions with us EOS yeah, oh yes, you took provisions EOS
mm EOS and then you went out and shopped for your bacon and stuff like
that, you know EOS mm, went to Wales, did remember going to Wales to
Capel Curig in W- during the war, and we stayed with this erm, lady, I
think it was a farm, because we couldn’t believe the meals we were
getting EOS getting EOS there were joints of meat EOS oh gosh, yeah
EOS and sides of bacon and EOS yeah EOS all the things that we didn’t
get EOS at home, you know, it was erm, absolutely wonderful for a
week, so I don’t know how we managed that, I’ve no idea about that one
erm, activities at school? No, the only thing I did at school was
music, I didn’t mind that cos that was the only thing I was interested
in, no sports at all, or drama EOS well I’ve d- when we went back to,
erm, **anon** after the blitz, we did a lotta sport, we used to go
into **anon** EOS oh yeah, yeah EOS and erm, or **anon**, which was
next door and we used to play Netball and Basketball and all sorts,
you know EOS oh right, yeah EOS I was good at that, the lads always
chose me to be on their team EOS I remember **anon** saying about
**anon** because he was born in erm, EOS in Salford EOS in Salford,
yeah EOS yes EOS yeah he went to school in Salford EOS well we just
lived across the river from there EOS oh did you EOS yeah EOS he went
to erm EOS ooh, I can’t remember its name now no, can’t remember its
name, can remember he went to **anon** church EOS oh so- so he was a
catholic then EOS well his- his- his Dad was EOS oh EOS cause his Dad
was **anon**, he took the name **anon** EOS yeah EOS for his
confirmation you know EOS so he- it depends which side of Salford he
lived in EOS erm EOS if he went to **anon** because EOS erm EOS erm
cos it’s the nearest- EOS I know that- I know they lived for a part on
**anon** EOS oh that was Weast EOS Weast and then he lived somewhere
else as well, cos his Mum had a shop EOS oh EOS but I can’t remember
where that was, it was an off license and grocers EOS oh EOS but erm I
can’t remember- I can’t remember me teachers can’t remember their
names no EOS describe your favourite teacher, EOS well, that was me-
EOS ooh EOS that was me music teacher erm EOS well I think my
favourite EOS was me French teacher EOS oh right, oh we didn’t do
languages EOS Miss- **anon** EOS oh right EOS she was a, quite a bonny
lady, you know, but I liked her EOS mmhmm EOS very much and me
favourite teacher, well, erm, me least favourite teacher, I remember
her quite well EOS she w- I’ve- I’ve- I’ve not got to mention the name
have I EOS it- no you don’t have to no EOS no EOS you can do EOS I
shouldn’t think she’ll be alive now EOS no, she wouldn’t be well, her
name was **anon** actually EOS oh right EOS but she was, no she wasn’t
my favourite teacher at all EOS oh yeah, yeah, well that was a bit
like the one EOS how about you? EOS who decided I wasn’t worth
teaching EOS so, and I can’t remember her name, no way EOS did you
ever get into trouble for something at school? Yes EOS no EOS talking
too much in class EOS oh right EOS and were you ever blamed for
something that wasn’t your fault? Yes I was EOS were you? EOS yes,
well, me Dad had bought me a- a fountain pen and I- it went missing,
you know, EOS mm EOS and we were- the teacher had gone out of the
class and we were doing out work and then suddenly, EOS this girl near
me took out my fountain pen EOS oh EOS and just as the teacher walked
back in, mouthy **anon** shouted, ‘that’s my pen’ EOS so of course sh-
she called me out, and it w- the teacher that- that lesson used to
teach me Dad and erm, his sisters when they were young, you know EOS
right EOS ‘**anon**’ of course, that was me maiden name, erm, ‘what’s
the problem’ and, she said, ‘you’re starting again’, I said, ‘no, th-
that was my- that’s my pen that me Dad bought me’ so you see, and she
was blaming me for the- causing the trouble EOS mmhmm EOS anyway, she
apologised afterwards and I was allowed to go and clean the cupboard
out and I didn’t know whether that was an honour or not, EOS or a
punishment, you know, cos I wasn’t- I didn’t do cleaning EOS I do now
but I didn’t then EOS oh right EOS but erm, but you see i- if- if any-
if I did something wrong EOS she used to say ‘hm, just like your
Father’ EOS oh no EOS oh right EOS yes EOS mm EOS and when I went to
infant school there was a teacher there that knew me Dad, phew,
‘typical of **anon** daughter’ used to say, you know EOS oh right EOS
was he naughty then? EOS was he EOS y- yeah he must’ve been, he
must’ve been EOS he must’ve been, mustn’t he EOS yes EOS right, where
are your parents from EOS yes EOS well, my paren- my Mother was from
Manchester, she was from erm, an area in Moss Side, and my Father my
Father was born, erm, in Liverpool EOS my parents were, Mother was
well I don’t really know where she was born to be honest because her
par- her Mother died when she was three erm, so I don’t really know a
lot, but she went to live in erm, Manchester, with erm, some Uncles
and Aunts so, but the rest of her life she lived in Salford EOS until
she died mm EOS erm, how has your community changed in recent- well I
don’t know about the community in Wythenshawe, I think that’s erm,
that’s changed quite a bit unfortunately it got a bad reputation but
erm, when my parents went- moved from Moss Side to Wythenshawe they
were asked, would they like to go and live in the ga- the new garden
city EOS new garden city EOS which was Wythenshawe and they erm, they
moved to there, and there erm, house, and did they want the one with
the kitchen on the front or did- and the living room, or did they want
the one with a front parlour and a living room- EOS and two separate
rooms EOS yeah one was erm, the one with the kitchen on the front was
ten shillings a week, and the other one was ten and six, so they had
to have the ten shilling one EOS ten shilling one EOS because me Dad
was out of work EOS of work, that’s right EOS yeah, yeah and they-
they spent all the- all their life and I did, right until I married
EOS mm EOS yeah EOS well I the last house me Mum and Dad were in erm,
that was rented of course, I got married from there, and then I got a
house exactly the same in the next street EOS oh did you EOS two years
after I got married, yes EOS right EOS so EOS what’s taken places in
your town? Ooh, I don’t know EOS oh gosh, that’s- EOS Manchester’s
changed a lot hasn’t it really EOS it has, and Salford has EOS and
Salford has hasn’t it EOS yes EOS yeah, yeah EOS I mean erm, now then
we had- somebody was correcting me the other day, I said about Salford
docks, al- EOS oh right EOS well it was always known as Manchester
docks, I said it was still in Salford, EOS it was Salford docks EOS it
was on our side of the river EOS that’s right, yeah EOS and the canal
EOS yeah, Salford docks, there was a pub on- there was supposed to be
a pub on every corner and you could- EOS that’s right EOS you could
never complete it could you EOS that- if you were a drinker, yeah,
yeah EOS yeah EOS you could never complete the- EOS yes EOS the
circuit could you EOS yeah, yes EOS yeah, that was a- EOS that was on
EOS erm, Trafford Road EOS yeah EOS yes EOS yeah, I remem- I remember
that erm- EOS I didn’t drink so EOS that saying EOS I didn’t- I didn’t
try any of them EOS no, no, EOS we didn’t but I EOS yeah EOS just
remember that saying, you know, that erm- EOS yes, you couldn’t pass a
corner without a pub EOS that’s right, yeah, yeah, erm, it’s nice to
see that they’ve left the two cranes really, part of the heritage at
erm, Salford docks, don’t you think? EOS yes EOS you know, cos I mean,
EOS mm EOS most of it’s gone now hasn’t it? EOS yes, oh yes, I always
say when I go to The Lowry in Salford EOS mm EOS yeah EOS me Dad was
erm, he had to go on work of national importance in the war because he
was too old for the forces and he was meant to- was sent as a docker
EOS oh right EOS and the difference in his- his dress when he- he was
a docker and when he was a- in his- his own job, you know EOS yeah EOS
it’s unbelievable, and like, we always say, ‘ooh, he’d turn over in
his grave if he could see these docks now’ you know EOS yeah, yeah,
yeah, **anon** was amazed to see EOS mm EOS you know, he did live to
see all that erm, that change, you know, and EOS yes EOS erm EOS he
was quite pleased with how they’d- EOS yes EOS they’d changed it and-
EOS it is- I mean that is a- something- a bonus to Salford that EOS it
is really, isn’t it EOS and The Lowry EOS yeah, yeah EOS The Lowry,
yeah EOS and the way they’ve cleaned up the canal and EOS yes EOS
everywhere round there, Manchester, I think Manchester’s EOS well EOS
I don’t think that’s done any the better- for the better EOS no, I
don’t, EOS I think Manchester’s gone down- EOS I mean they are saying
that since the IRA bomb EOS yeah EOS it’s improved it, but I don’t
think it has EOS I don’t think so, no, no EOS no, no EOS Piccadilly
gardens, it used to be lovely EOS oh, that used to be gorgeous, yes
EOS we used to spend hours there in the garden EOS yeah EOS now it’s
just a EOS shambles EOS mess and a down-and-out’s place really isn’t
it EOS yep EOS I don’t- I don’t think Manchester’s got a lot to shout
about at the moment EOS no but erm- EOS what local events, news,
history do you think is important people know about EOS your town EOS
ooh EOS well I mean I don’t think EOS I mean there’s lots EOS I don’t
think they should forget the war EOS no EOS erm, I think the
youngsters want- when I say something to my children now they say,
‘you should write a book Mum’ you know EOS because of these incidents
during the war, you know EOS incidents and events, yeah, yeah, there
was a lot went on really EOS yes EOS and there’s a lotta well known
people EOS came from Salf- EOS cam from Salford and Manchester didn’t
they EOS yes, they did EOS I don’t think they’re remembered as they
erm, as they should be EOS mm, and- EOS but erm, and the whit walks
and things like that, you know, I mean, EOS oh yes, yes, and- EOS that
was EOS me Mother was, erm, if there was anything happening in
Salford, like I always remember when the Bish- the- one of the
Bishop’s died EOS mm EOS the Catholic Bishop’s died, and erm, of
course we had to go to St- erm, Salford Cathedral EOS mm EOS we only
stood outside the church, and there was meself and me brother that’s
two year older than me, and he was a very good-looking child, you know
and erm, somebody turned round and said to me Mother, ‘ooh, hasn’t he
got a saintly face’ EOS he wasn’t a saintly child mind you EOS of
course, when me Mother got home she said to me Father, EOS ‘somebody
say hasn’t, erm, **anon** got a saintly face’ so for ever- ever after
that, me Dad always just say, ‘where’s the saintly one’ EOS he was
known as the saintly one EOS the saintly one EOS yes, ‘til me Dad
died, yes, and erm- EOS did you move house at all when you were
younger? No, we never moved house at all, so, EOS oh I did, I’ve just
told you all about that haven’t I, EOS yeah, mm EOS sorry about that
love EOS no, it’s alright EOS didn’t know about that EOS what fun
things are there to do in your community? What, this community here
we’re in, now EOS yeah, either EOS mm EOS well, there’s quite a lot
we’re erm, always going on about things EOS well I- I do go to erm,
**anon** sports centre on a Wednesday to play table tennis, I’ve done
that for years, not that- I play at playing it, that’s the truth but
EOS erm EOS that one about- EOS we’ve EOS did you move house, what
memories do you have? We- well, when we went to live, erm, near Hope
Hospital we were- it was new property, and me Grandma had won the
Irish sweepstake, so she bought two houses see, EOS mmhmm EOS we moved
into one of them EOS and, at the end of the road where we lived there
was the stream EOS oh right EOS and I used to like fishing there for
tadpoles, and one day it was absolutely chucking it down, me Mother
said, ‘has she gone fishing again’, so she came and sorted me out you
see, and there’s me sat with me jam jar, and me little fishing net,
EOS and she said, ‘come on in, it’s too wet to be sat here’ but I was
enjoying meself, you know EOS mm EOS so I had to go in, I think she
was frightened of me getting pneumonia or something EOS mm yeah we
have quite a- a few things really EOS yes EOS that we’re involved in
aren’t we EOS yes EOS we have events at church, don’t we? EOS yeah and
then we go to the **anon** Theatre in- EOS and we go to the **anon**
Theatre regularly EOS yes EOS and we go to The Lowry EOS yeah EOS
theatre, don’t we? EOS yes EOS regularly, erm, we support Macmillan,
there events at erm, Trafford General EOS at Trafford EOS don’t we?
EOS yes EOS erm, you have a group that you go to EOS yep EOS and erm,
EOS I go to a- a little theatre in **anon** that’s been going for
years, I go there regularly with erm, with some friends what else have
we got erm it’s a shame our local, erm, just in this- off the square
here, EOS erm, just on the square EOS **anon**, that has closed now
for el- older people, EOS for the evening bit EOS oh EOS erm we used
to go there on a Thursday, didn’t we EOS we used to go on a Thursday,
yes we did EOS and that was really good EOS yes EOS but erm, the cost
of hire of the room and everything, it’s erm, they’ve had to shut down
after, what was it, fifty years EOS yes EOS fifty years they’ve been
going EOS woah EOS so it’s a shame, really, EOS so a lot of the old
people were really upset about that EOS mm EOS have you lived anywhere
else other than the town, city where you live now? I lived not far
away from here, I’ve only been here for three years, I did live erm,
from Wythenshawe I went to- when I first married I went and lived in
Cheadle EOS oh did you, ooh you were posh then weren’t you EOS mm,
with me first husband, yes I was quite posh, I went and lived there,
erm, but that marriage, erm, failed- oh I lived in, when I was
nursing, I lived at erm, Bowden at, do you remember d- EOS ooh EOS
ooh, I tell you, you see, it’s coming out she say- she’s quite posh
really, on the quiet you see- EOS yeah, yeah, yeah, do you remember
**anon** Hospital? EOS who? EOS **anon** Hospital EOS oh, I’ve heard
of it EOS in Bowden EOS it’s, yes, it was EOS it’s a- it was a n- like
a nursing home EOS mm EOS you went from **anon** EOS yes EOS you could
go into **anon** to recoup EOS yes EOS and I- I went- I lived there, I
w- I was there when it was the Queen’s coronation, cos I wanted to
watch it on the- EOS on the television EOS they had a television
there, and we didn’t have one, and I wanted to watch it but the matron
decided that would be my first night on nights, so I had to go to bed
that day, so I couldn’t see the coronation EOS see EOS had to wait, to
go home, and watch it on me Mother’s friends, erm EOS yeah EOS you
know, erm EOS I was working when that EOS were you EOS the- and why we
didn’t close I don’t know EOS oh right EOS cause now they close things
like that don’t they EOS yeah, yeah EOS yeah, at the Royal wedding
they did EOS yes, erm EOS yeah, but erm, so I live- I lived there for
a go- and then erm, then of course I- I married- I married **anon** in
nineteen-sixty, we lived in Wythenshawe with me Mum for a while, and
then we got the house just in **anon** EOS **anon** EOS you know,
watched that being built and- and moved there and then three years ago
I came here so EOS and that’s what happened to me, we moved to
**anon** so it’s just round the corner from Katrina **anon** EOS oh,
okay, near **anon** EOS mm, yeah EOS and then erm, we- I moved here
the month after Katrina **anon** EOS mm, that’s right, yeah EOS yes
EOS what are local people like? Very nice EOS yes they are EOS yeah,
yeah EOS friendly EOS yeah, yes, we can’t say anything other than that
really can we EOS no, no- EOS no, I suppose we’re fortunate in having
a good group of people really aren’t we EOS mm especially around, you
know, in this square EOS especially in th- in this square, yeah EOS mm
EOS but when I- I walk a lot to Urmston EOS going up Moorside road,
there’s all sorts of people say, ‘morning’, you know EOS yeah EOS yeah
EOS yes they do, yeah EOS they do, they’re very friendly EOS yeah EOS
yes EOS yeah, we find that really EOS yes, I think we’ve answered all
those haven’t we EOS yeah, I think we have EOS erm, I could- okay, EOS One, two, three. EOS Yep. EOS One two three. EOS Yep.
That’s fine. EOS Okay EOS Er shall I start? EOS No! EOS Okay, EOS you
start EOS Are we on then? EOS Yeah EOS yeah EOS is that what I was
doing- right, then I dunno Games you played when you were a kid. EOS
Oh, skipping Erm there was one called erm Rallyvo. Used to throw a
ball at the wall er and try and hit you with it, I think EOS Was
that-? EOS Hopscotch. That was always a good one. Used to play horses
EOS me friends used to gallop round the playground. EOS That was
always a good one. And we used to play- EOS What, on top of each
other? EOS No EOS no. Just used to chase and make this noise . EOS
Good fun EOS I don’t particularly remember them doing that in my
school. EOS What did you play? EOS Er, football. EOS Football. EOS
Continuously. EOS Non-stop. EOS From morning to night. EOS Erm right,
erm-. EOS Amd we used to play on the railway. EOS ooh EOS That’s not
good. EOS On the sidings. Pinching things from Kelloggs. EOS Stoning
trains, was always a good one. EOS Oh my god what? EOS Putting stones
on the track. EOS Oh my god! That’s terrible. EOS Setting fire to the
grass, that was always good fun. EOS That’s what we used to do as
kids. EOS Oh we didn’t. EOS Kids are mollycoddled now they couldn’t go
anywhere near the railway. EOS Well my very favourite game was playing
school in my friend’s shed. EOS yeah, EOS That used to be brilliant.
Used to be four of us. EOS aww EOS Great times. I was always the
teacher. EOS Cos I was the oldest . Anyway, did you help out around
the house a lot, when you were a kid? EOS Never. EOS Never? EOS Never
did anything whatsoever. My mum used to do the lot. EOS Well we did.
EOS I wouldn’t be in the house anyway cos I’d be out playing. EOS
Football. EOS Football. On the railway. EOS Setting fire to the grass.
EOS On the canal playing with my air rifle. Another thing kids
couldn’t do these days. EOS Shooting things. Smashing bottles, killing
birds. Sparrows, starlings, songbirds. EOS I’m surprised you’re not in
prison now. EOS Anything that moved, basically. Each other sometimes.
EOS I’m surprised you’re not in prison now. EOS Ah it’s my education
that kept me out. EOS Going rabbiting, EOS friend’s dog, little Jack
Russell. If I was allowed to go. Always cliques in gangs. Some people
can do things, some other people can’t. Bigger lads always used to go,
sometimes we could tag along. That was good fun. EOS Killing rabbits?
EOS Killing rabbits, EOS killing rabbits, yeah. EOS Watching the dog
get them. EOS Oh my god. EOS Flushing them out with the ferrets. EOS
Really? EOS Yeah that’s what you do, put a ferret down the hole, wait
for it to flush the rabbit out, and then the dog would go and get the
rabbit. EOS Oh my god Right then. EOS While you were playing school,
we couldn’t wait to get out of school. EOS And you’re finishing school
and going to play it. EOS Loved it, it was great fun Big thing was
getting all the- it used to be a really big thing if you used to get a
new pad and pencils and pens and- used to share them all out and used
to set homework and- It was good fun, used to love it. Had a
blackboard in there as well, and- cos I was the oldest, and that was a
time, I remember running home, I was only about ten or eleven and I
was in a rush, they were all waiting for me at the door. And I tripped
over a towel EOS oh no EOS over the banister, and fell down the stairs
from top to bottom and broke my arm. Remember that, EOS God EOS yeah I
was about ten, ten or eleven years old when that happened. Anyway EOS
No permanent damage done then. EOS No EOS Didn’t hit your head did
you? EOS Yes I did. I did hit my head, but- EOS Ah well maybe that
explains a few things then. EOS there was no lasting damage. No
lasting damage anyway. So you didn’t do anything to help out at home?
Nothing at all? EOS Never. EOS Nothing. EOS Nope. EOS We had to, to
get spends. EOS yeah EOS Nope. EOS So if we didn’t do our jobs, we
didn’t get spends. End of. EOS Used to help an elderly neighbour for
cash. EOS God what a different childhood we had. EOS erm- EOS I- I
take it you used to help out then did you? EOS An awful lot. Yeah, yes
I did. EOS ooh, sorry, I’ll just get that EOS Erm what is your best or
funniest memory from when you were a child? EOS But- but what did you
do then? Helping out. EOS What at home? EOS Yeah, you’re saying, ‘oh
well yeah I helped out a lot,’ but what did you do to help out? EOS We
used to have to Ewbank the carpet, cos I wasn’t allowed to use the
hoover cos I used into bang into the furniture too much with it. EOS
What’s a Ewbank? EOS A Ewbank? EOS A Ewbank, what’s a Ewbank? EOS A
Ewbank- A Ewbank is like a hoover with no motor. Used to push it up
and down, up and down, up and down. EOS What sucking, making sucking
noises like a horsey game? EOS No, no No used to just push it up and
down up and down, it used to hoover everything but without a motor.
EOS You- you just- EOS It had brushes on it. So I used to have to
Ewbank the carpet and then we used to have to polish, but EOS Did you
make the noise of the hoover when you were Ewbanking? EOS No we didn’t
used to make the noise of the hoover, no we didn’t. Erm, yeah
polishing, washing pots. But we had to do that properly. Otherwise, if
we didn’t do it properly, then we didn’t get our spends. EOS ahh EOS
She used to dock us money. Erm-. EOS Do you think Dyson could make a
Ewbank? EOS oh n- now no I’m talking about in th- in the seventies.
Everyone had a Ewbank. Did you not? EOS I don’t remember one. EOS I
remember you had a Ewbank. EOS How do you know? You wasn’t there! EOS
But you and me have been together thirty odd years, so yeah I remember
when me and you were courting. EOS well I- EOS You had a Ewbank in
your house. EOS I’m sure it was orange. EOS Well I never u- EOS or
that could’ve been mine EOS well I never used it. EOS Well you
wouldn’t have used it because you didn’t do anything to help your mum.
But- yes you did! EOS he used to make fairy cakes with his mum. EOS
aww EOS That’s not helping me mum. EOS Well what is it then? EOS That
was making food EOS for me to eat. EOS So did you used to cook with
your mum? EOS Occasionally. That was-. EOS And what did you used to
make? EOS Eve’s Pudding. EOS And-? EOS Fairy cakes. EOS Ah. And what
happened, what did your brothers used to do to you? EOS Used to tease
me. EOS aww EOS And they used to-? EOS Punch me. EOS Batter him EOS
aww EOS Well the older one would. EOS And called him a girl. EOS Yeah
they all wanted some of the fairy cakes. EOS Wouldn’t say that now
they see- now they see Gordon Ramsey they wouldn’t be saying that,
would they? EOS No you’re quite right. EOS If I’d have followed that
path maybe I wouldn’t be here now. EOS maybe. EOS Bigger and better
things. EOS oh . EOS I might’ve been a better cook than you, I
probably am a better cook than you, but that’s-. EOS I’m a
professional! EOS That’s something else. EOS So then this will be an
easy one for you. Because er- your grandparents- did your grandparents
ever tell you any stories? EOS Lots and lots of stories. EOS What,
your granddad told you stories? EOS Yes he did. My grandfather was
known as the storyteller. EOS Aww EOS In our house, wasn’t he? About
how he was lost at sea in the merchant navy for a year, and presumed
dead. EOS God EOS and then he just turned up. EOS Really? EOS erm- EOS
Wasn’t during the war, was it? EOS Yes it was, was it not in the war?
I can’t remember. My granddad was **anon** they lived in er EOS ahh
EOS **anon** EOS In some countries they call it deserting, don’t they?
EOS He did not desert! He did not desert. He wasn’t- he was captured,
his ship got blown up and they were rescued and- and then they lived
somewhere, I can’t remember. EOS Were they captured by members of
their own family? EOS No, no they weren’t. Oh you’re talking about
that granddad. My granddad **anon**. EOS No not the Irish side, not
the first world war side. EOS He was a deserter. EOS Really? EOS I
think so. I don’t know the whole story about that but EOS yeah EOS he
changed- changed his name, the- the spelling of the surname so they
couldn’t trace him or something. EOS But I don’t know why they did
that. EOS Probably so they didn’t have to fight. EOS I don’t know,
anyway. EOS How about your family? EOS Yeah they told me stories yeah.
EOS About-? EOS My father told me a story about when he was shot in
the neck. EOS Yeah, and we all believed him. EOS Well you would
believe him, he’s got a hole in his neck where he was shot. EOS And
what was the hole really? EOS It was er tuberculosis. EOS oh EOS Given
to him by cow’s milk I believe. EOS And we all believed him. When I
first started going out with Martin **anon** he told me he’d been shot
in the neck. EOS Yeah. EOS I was fifteen and er for maybe twenty
years, EOS is it twenty years, I believed him. All that time. EOS mm
EOS That he’d been shot in the neck, but his mum was shot, EOS really?
EOS she had shap- shrapnel in her legs, she’s **anon** Martin’s
**anon** mum. And er when the- when the planes came over, and the-
they were shooting in the fields or something, weren’t they? EOS My
mum wasn’t shooting. EOS no EOS She was picking- she was picking
potatoes. EOS the English yeah in a field. EOS Little girl picking-
picking potatoes in a field and er a hurricane pilot decided she was a
legitimate target. EOS oh, no EOS And er opened the machines gun- EOS
shot down EOS machine guns at her. EOS Yeah. EOS And she ended up with
shrapnel in the top of her thigh. EOS Yeah. EOS oh, no EOS yeah. She
told us some right stories, your mum didn’t she? From- she had it
really hard. EOS yeah EOS There’s I think nine of them, wasn’t there?
Something- was there nine brothers and sisters. EOS Something like
yeah. EOS And it really, really hard eating frozen potatoes out of the
ground when they were kids. EOS gosh EOS And yeah, in Germany Mm
must’ve been hard for her. EOS Not like me you see. Privileged life
that we lead. EOS mm, true EOS Some of us more than others. EOS mmhmm,
erm, how many brothers and sisters do you have? And did you get along
with each other when you were kids? EOS No EOS none of them. Youngest
brother probably, eldest brother used to bully me, EOS aww EOS tease
me, together with my dad. EOS And me younger brother. EOS So you were
picked on by all of them. EOS All of them, middle child, EOS aww EOS
typical. EOS I used to batter my brother, EOS did you? EOS seven years
between us. EOS I used to batter him all the time EOS aww EOS Make him
do things to- for me, or I’d torture him. EOS Chinese burns EOS He was
only little. EOS aww EOS Oh how horrible! Still don’t get on now EOS
No that’s not true. That’s not true, we do get on, so EOS So can you
describe what a Chinese burn actually is? EOS It’s it’s- give me your
wrist and I’ll show you. EOS That- it’s no good for the tape is it?
Showing. EOS No well you used to grab the wrists with your two hands
EOS yeah EOS and you used to go like that. EOS ooh EOS And it used to
burn. Used to twist the skin on your wrist EOS What in opposite
directions? EOS Yes. In opposite directions, and you used to scream.
EOS But my most favourite one to do with him EOS was the cow bite. Was
to grab him like that and squeeze dead hard, until he’d shift from the
chair. We always used to fight where we used to sit you see. EOS Yeah.
EOS So- that’s what we used to do. EOS Well my brother used to give me
cow bites. I used to hate him. EOS I’m sure my brother used to hate
me. EOS Used to give me cow bites on the back of the arm, just pinch
the back of the arm. EOS Urgh, ow. EOS And he used to think it was
funny. And I used to scream. EOS and I used to think it was funny and
he used to scream. But then me dad would always intervene and I’d get
battered off me dad. I; EOS Think my dad used to join in. EOS I think
these days they’d call it child abuse. EOS ahh EOS I’m gonna ask him
when I see him now EOS Yeah I can remember- and punishment from me
mum. Always used to hand out the beatings. EOS Slippers, cane. EOS the
flat back of a hairbrush. EOS ooh EOS Oh, ouch. She’s quite torturous,
his mother. EOS ahh EOS Isn’t she, she’s- threw a turtle on the fire.
EOS Turtle? Why? EOS Cos she thought it was dead and it was
hibernating. EOS oh, no EOS Didn’t she? EOS Say, it’s not funny is it?
EOS No No it’s not. Now there was the kitten down the toilet. EOS What
do you mean, kittens down the toilet? EOS She told me she used to put
kittens- oh no in a bucket of water. EOS she w- EOS When she was- when
they were a kid on the farm. There were too many cats. That’s what her
dad used to do. dunk them in a bucket of water. Didn’t she? EOS She
did yeah. She had a terrible accident one day with her favourite
little kitten. When she closed the door without looking and her
favourite little fluffy kitten got in the way. EOS Oh no! EOS Squished
its head. EOS Mm, mincemeat. EOS That was horrible. EOS Not very nice.
EOS And the budgie. EOS Oh we had a budgie, happy bird it was
absolutely fantastic, EOS ahh EOS used to pick your teeth. EOS he did
EOS Sit on your shoulder, come to you whenever you called him. EOS On
your cup of tea, he’d stand on your cup of tea. Didn’t he? EOS Yep,
he’d been rescued. Flown into my sister-in-law’s office. And she
brought him home and we kept him. And then me dad decided to give him
an airing, outside in his cage. And the cat got on top of the cage.
EOS ah, no EOS And we never seen happy bird ever again. EOS aww EOS
Not very good at keeping animals were you really? EOS I wasn’t bad.
EOS We had a cat called Ginger and my dad used to call him fleabag.
EOS And he got run over and lost his leg, his front paw. EOS aww EOS
What colour was he? EOS Ginger EOS and he used to be full of fleas EOS
So you called him Ginger and fleabag. EOS Fleabag, ‘go away fleabag!’
Used to go mad at him, always clawing. I had a guinea pig when I was
really little. Me dad hated that as well. EOS Oh no EOS Mm. He died.
EOS How could he hate a guinea pig? EOS He just used to hate him, he
used to say he was dead noisy. But that was from when I was really
little, when I lived in **anon**. And I left there when I was seven or
eight, I think I was. I remember the hutch in the back- in the back
yard next to the toilet. Cos we had an outside toilet. EOS Oh EOS
yeah, Squeaks. EOS What was it like then, using your outside toilet?
EOS Can’t remember really, I was only little. But we had an inside one
as well. EOS Two toilets? EOS Yeah yeah EOS Did you used to live in a
mansion when you lived in **anon**? EOS No no, two up, two down. EOS
With- two up two down with two toilets? EOS No there was a toilet
outside and then there was my mum and dad’s bedroom and then there was
my bedroom and then there was a wall with a door in that me dad put up
and there was a toilet in there. Upstairs but you had to come through
my bedroom to get to the toilet. EOS So you used to have an ensuite? I
EOS Yeah. EOS So whilst the only person in the country with ensuite
was the Queen, EOS [laugh EOS you also had one? EOS It was the toilet
upstairs. Definitely. With glass at the top and this studded wall.
Horrible it was. EOS So an inside toilet was horrible? While I’m going
outside EOS in the depths of winter. EOS Did you not have an inside
toilet? EOS No we didn’t have an inside toilet no. EOS That toilet
that you’ve got now? That’s an inside toilet. EOS I can remember it-
that’s- that’s a- that’s an inside toilet that’s been turned round
from the outside. EOS oh right. EOS Originally that was an outside
toilet. With red walls that had been speckled with paint, like you’d
do in school. To splash on the paper. EOS And that’s what we used to
have. With a nail. EOS Get lost! EOS Nail. EOS You’ll be saying
newspaper next. EOS And newspaper. Newspaper. EOS No you did not. EOS
Cut up into sheets. EOS That’s not true! EOS That’s true. Izal. EOS Oh
we used to have, Izal. EOS Don’t sound proud of it! EOS Izal was- EOS
It’s nothing to be proud of, to have Izal. EOS Izal was paper. EOS oh
EOS It was horrible. It was, you had to scrunch it all up first. Oh it
was nasty. EOS That was luxu- that was luxury, we had- when we had the
Izal in that was like our luxury, rather than the newspaper. That was
like a good day. If you went in there and there was Izal in there that
was like, ‘yeah it must be pay day.’ EOS We were posher than Martin
**anon** in our family EOS oh, okay EOS because we went to-. EOS
You’ll have come from **anon**, you couldn’t have been- oh no you did
have two toilets didn’t you? EOS Yes we did and we went to Majorca EOS
ooh EOS when I was little. With me **anon** and **anon** on a plane
and I was about eight or nine. And I remember sitting next to the pool
eating calamari. EOS Rings, chewy rings. Got- still got the
photographs of that. EOS I do- EOS I had an orange and yellow dress
on, that me nanna made. EOS Aww. EOS Mm, and a towelling bikini, with
spots EOS So you were there in nineteen seventy two, eating cala-
what, EOS calamari EOS cala-who-dri? EOS Roll of squid. I remember- I
remember it really, really well. EOS And you were calling them
calamari in nineteen seventy two? EOS No we weren’t calling them that,
it was squid. Yeah, remember it. EOS So you had a toilet upstairs. EOS
We did. EOS And you used to go on foreign holidays. EOS We did go on
one. EOS And eat calamari. EOS Only one foreign holiday. EOS I bet you
were drinking wine as well, wasn’t you? EOS No, no that was when I was
a bit older cos like I say with being Mediterranean in the family, we
all had wine. Two fingers EOS mm EOS two fingers of wine in the glass,
topped up with lemonade or water. EOS ahh EOS mm EOS And there’s me
being dragged off to me bleeding grandmas in Windsor, into a tower
block. EOS aww, ahh, EOS Really? EOS Yeah, really yeah. The old fifth
floor of a tower block or something. That was my summer holidays. EOS
That was only one, with me **anon** and me **anon** that I remember
that early. EOS Unless it was every year, this. EOS No we didn’t get
holiday every year. Isle of Man. EOS Wasn’t an holiday it was like
punishment. EOS I remember going to the Isle of Man. EOS did you not
used to go to **anon**? EOS That was when I was older. I was just
visiting family then, not holiday I was visiting family. EOS whe- EOS
‘Go- go to **anon**, go to **anon** and watch your granddad die.’ Ah,
so EOS Oh my god. EOS That’s what we did. EOS Where in **anon** is it?
EOS It was er near EOS Oh okay. EOS **anon**, **anon**. We had a good
time it was nice meeting family. EOS yeah EOS Watching your granddad
die. EOS Couldn’t under- watching me granddad die. Couldn’t understand
a word they said. EOS But yeah, enjoyed it Not Windsor, I didn’t,
that’s a bit rubbish. EOS Well other than going round the castle, the
castle was alright. EOS mm EOS Just me and me younger brother then so
I wouldn’t be bullied all the time. M; Remember having a bath once
with my sister, well I wasn’t bathing with my sister. That would be a
bit weird, wouldn’t it? EOS But she bathed me, I don’t know, she
would’ve been quite old as well, maybe twelve or thirteen. Twelve
probably I’d have been about eight. And for a laugh she poured sco-
scolding water on me head. EOS I don’t know if it was cold water first
or hot water. But whatever it was, she told me to stop complaining and
put the other one on top of me head afterwards. EOS Oh god . EOS It’s
no wonder I’m a twisted individual I suppose. EOS See that’s my
childhood, see? EOS You had a terrible childhood didn’t you? EOS Yeah
so did your **anon**. So did your brother. Being bullied by you,
that’s how he- EOS Oh my god it was a bit of a flipping- EOS That’s
how he feels. I’m sure that’s how he feels. That’s why he’s gone to
America. EOS Aww . EOS Because he had to leave because he couldn’t
stay in this country any more. EOS Do you know what I did do which was
really bad? This is terrible this. He bought my mum- there used to be
a chocolate bar called a nutty. And it- it was like caramel- EOS That
sounds attractive that. EOS that’s what they were called, do you
remember nuttys? EOS No, could never afford chocolates. EOS And it was
caramel EOS and it was wrapped in like peanuts and he bought it me mum
for mother’s day and kept it in the cupboard. He bought it with his
spends. And I’ll never forget, oh I can’t believe I did this, but I
stole it and I ate it. EOS Cos I wanted this chocolate bar so, so
much. And I denied all knowledge for- it was up until a couple of
years ago. EOS Really? EOS I told him the truth. He always used to say
to me, ‘you did take that nutty, didn’t you?’ And I used to go, ‘no I
didn’t!’ and I did. EOS aww EOS And it was only a few years ago when-
cos I go and visit him maybe once a year. Or once every two years, I
can’t- EOS yeah EOS and I told him the truth. And he was really upset
with me. EOS Yeah, was he? EOS Yeah, cos he EOS aww EOS Well he would
be. Cos all he wanted to do as a child was please his mum. EOS Yeah
give- EOS give it her for mother’s day. EOS All I wanted to do was
please my mum, make cakes with my mum, and I got teased and ridiculed.
EOS And all he wanted to do was buy his mum a chocolate bar. And give
it for mother’s day, was it? EOS Yeah. EOS Aww. EOS And then somebody
nasty and older went and spoilt it. EOS I got her milk tray. EOS
Spoilt his special day. EOS It’s terrible. EOS His day with his mum.
EOS And I can- I remember I got my mum a box of milk tray and you got
a free happy mother’s day card with it. And when she died she still-
when we were going through all her stuff, we found it, she’d kept it
all that time. EOS Really, aww that’s nice. EOS All that time, she
kept it. And this little card as well, best mum in the world. Couldn’t
believe she kept it all that time. EOS She probably was quite- I
dunno, a bit er- surprised that you’d been so nice for once. EOS I was
a very nice daughter. EOS Cos she’d probably see all the things that
you did to your brother and- but you continued to- well you always
liked chocolate didn’t you? EOS Doing things with chocolate EOS I know
it’s not about childhood because you know, when- when I had my easter
egg. EOS oh don’t tell her that! EOS Remember I had my easter egg?
When we were married. And you got me an easter egg. EOS Yes. EOS On
easter Sunday morning. EOS Yes I remember. EOS And I’d had it about
two minutes EOS and you went all moody, EOS aww EOS and stamped on it,
stamped on it like a little child in front of me, didn’t you? EOS
Stamping your feet over and over again until the easter egg was
crushed. Didn’t you? EOS Why? EOS I can’t remember now. I can’t
remember why. EOS You can’t rememb- you can’t remember doing it, oh
did you blank it out? EOS No I can remember, I can remember doing it
very clearly. EOS you blank it out, that’s what I tried to do when-, I
tried to blank it out when nasty things happen to you, that’s what you
try to do. EOS aww EOS Oh I can’t- EOS but, yeah EOS I can’t remember
why I did that now. Why you annoyed me so much. EOS mm, I have my
ideas why you did it but-. EOS Why, tell me why! Cos you didn’t get me
one? EOS I don’t think that was the reason. EOS I can’t remember. EOS
I think it’s just about your wiring, isn’t it? EOS Er where are your
parents from? Oh we’ve established that really, haven’t we? EOS Well
my dad’s not **anon** is he? EOS No go on! Where are your parents
from? EOS That’s if they are my parents. EOS oh God EOS I always had
the feeling I was adopted because there was- I took so much abuse when
I was a child. EOS I always felt there was something different about
me. EOS ah EOS ah EOS As if I’d been abused, not abused but as if I’d
been- I’d come from somewhere else. EOS But you and your brother are
spitting image of each other! EOS I know but it wasn’t like that when
I was a kid. EOS With your big freaky head. EOS They used to- they
used to say I had a big head, yeah. EOS He had a huge head. EOS Oh
really? EOS Yeah with the biggest afro you’ve ever seen in your life,
it used to ‘.’ I; EOS What does ‘’ mean? EOS Your head, your hair used
to move before your head did. . EOS your brother told me! EOS What, me
brother told that mey head used to go ‘?’ EOS He said your head- your
afro was that big it used to wave in the wind. EOS But if it was
windy, what if it wasn’t windy? EOS I don’t know. So where’s your dad
from? EOS He’s English, from Salford. EOS My dad was born in Salford.
Wasn’t he? And lived in **anon**. M’: That’s a nice move that, isn’t
it? EOS mm EOS yeah EOS From dirty Salford to the suburbs of **anon**.
Is that where he got the idea of a second bathroom from? EOS From
living in **anon**? EOS There was a toilet upstairs, there was a
toilet upstairs. EOS How did he move from **anon** to **anon** then?
To the slums of **anon**? EOS It was not a slum! EOS It was a slum,
that was why you moved cos they pulled it down. EOS Knocking the
houses down, because my dad used to work for a company called
**anon**. EOS Erm and I think the houses, I’m not- I’m not too sure
about that. I know all the houses were originally built for the
factories weren’t they, that were there. For the factory workers. But
I’m sure it was my mum and dad’s house. You know I’m pretty sure it
was and they moved us to **anon**. Cos they were pulling them all
down. EOS mm, ah EOS But they didn’t pull them down for about five
years, did they? EOS No. EOS Moved everybody out and then didn’t pull
them down EOS . EOS Well they put Asians in them didn’t they? EOS Did
they? EOS That’s what they did, yeah. Immigrants. EOS But happy, happy
childhood my best friends, **anon**, **anon** and **anon** used to
live across the road. EOS Oh that’s nice. EOS Yeah, I remember that,
playing with the prams having races down the street with our prams.
Playing cricket in the entry. Couldn’t play cricket now but . EOS How
do you play- how do you play cricket without ca- being able to catch a
ball? EOS I can catch a ball. EOS I can catch a ball. EOS But you
couldn’t on holiday. I; oh, EOS Oh here we go again. EOS Well you
couldn’t! You couldn’t catch-. EOS He was on holiday, he was throwing
this ball at me in the sea, and he was skidding it so it was like
that, ‘.’ EOS ahh EOS And it was splashing all the water in your face.
EOS yeah EOS Well you’re like that shutting your eyes, and you can’t
catch a ball with your eyes shut. EOS Is that those really small ones?
EOS Yeah. EOS Yeah **anon** was saying. EOS yeah EOS It was fantastic.
EOS Him and **anon** played for-. EOS extreme. EOS mm EOS Throwing it
at each other. EOS yeah EOS Pathetic. I EOS For about an hour, nearly
put your shoulder out. EOS But that was the thing, catch the ball EOS
So yes I can catch a ball EOS Shall we move on now, do you want to
move on? EOS Do you want to move on? School days, go to school days!
EOS You had nice catholic schools, didn’t you? EOS I did. EOS That
must’ve been nice. EOS **anon** EOS Bet the n- nuns were nice, weren’t
they? EOS no evil. EOS Really? EOS **anon** in particular. EOS Why?
EOS Evil, evil-. EOS I wouldn’t mention any names Janice **anon**,
but- EOS What? Oh. EOS No it’s okay it gets edited out. EOS Oh that’s
okay. EOS I was only kidding her. EOS She’s- she was terrible. She’s
really, really evil. Used to- she had a knack, she used to throw the
board rubber and she used to get you every time. EOS ooh EOS It just-
it- there had to be complete silence in the classroom and if you dared
ask someone next to you for a pencil or- EOS yeah EOS oh my god, you
used to get it. And you used to have to stand in the corner- there was
a teacher called er **anon** and your nose had to be on the wall, like
that which- just stand there, all through the lesson. Until she was
ready for you to sit back down. EOS God EOS She was evil, horrible
woman, horrible. EOS That’d be child abuse now I’m sure it would be.
Can’t touch them now. EOS No. EOS Erm, how about you at school? EOS
Loved it EOS **anon**. EOS He’s really clever he went to a grammar
school, didn’t you? EOS ooh EOS It wasn’t me first scho- they didn’t
put me straight to grammar school. EOS I had to- I had to do infants
and juniors first. EOS At **anon**? EOS Lovely, yeah. EOS I loved my
school, **anon**, and then **anon**. EOS You got bullied at school,
didn’t you? EOS A little bit yeah Mm, I did. EOS Is that why you used
to- is that why you used to go home and bully your brother? EOS You
used to- but- EOS but you used to be a bully at school. EOS I didn’t
bully anybody EOS Pardon? EOS I didn’t bully I was just a bit rougher
than the other kids. EOS Is that not a bully? EOS Didn’t bully them,
no I didn’t bully them. EOS You used to batter anyone? EOS Just
everybody- no people just used to have their place. EOS And you were
the top of the pack, were you? EOS Mm, top bit of it, yeah. EOS Top
ten percent. That’s just the way school was. Bit like that in life.
EOS Suppose yeah, it is. EOS Do you remember your first day at school?
EOS No. EOS I bet you had shiny shoes on, didn’t you? EOS aww EOS New
shiny shoes. EOS I remember my first day at secondary school. When I
was eleven. I do remember that. Me nanna and granddad bought me this
bloody briefcase. EOS I just wanted a backpack, like everyone else.
EOS Yeah. EOS That’s all I wanted was this backpack. But my nanna and
granddad- well it was me granddad, he’d gone to London to see his
mother. EOS And it was them in the house that had give him this
briefcase that used to be my uncle’s. EOS oh, no EOS Oh god and it was
brown and it was horrible, EOS with this big buckle thing on the
front, oh I hated it so much, and I had to take it to school. And they
just laughed their heads off at me. EOS aww EOS I hated it. Hated it
so much. EOS I wish I’d have had one like that. EOS What did you have?
EOS I had a briefcase, it didn’t sound as nice as that one. EOS Oh
Martin **anon** it was awful. It was brown, like dark- like- like a
tan brown. It was so noticeable. Oh and it used to make this clicking
noise, oh god. Yeah you couldn’t even open it quiet EOS it’s all
coming back oh no EOS you couldn’t even open it quiet. everyone used
to look. EOS What did you used to keep in there? EOS My lovely
pencils. Cos I used to love my pencils and my felt tip pens. EOS And
my books. And me dinner tickets. EOS I bet you used to like dinner
didn’t you? Dinnertimes. EOS Did you used to like dinnertimes? EOS I
was dead skinny then I was, I was really skinny. EOS Yeah that’s
because you liked dinnertimes, that’s because- but you loved school
dinners didn’t you? EOS I did yeah. EOS Cos you became a school dinner
lady. EOS yeah. EOS I am a catering manager thank you very much. EOS I
manage the kitchen. EOS Yeah we’ll call it-. EOS I manage my cook, and
my washer uppers. EOS And you do some cooking as well. EOS I do
cooking, I do the c- I do the main meals, yes. EOS Do you now- do you
er- bring back your old favourites? You know, the stuff that you used
to like when you were a kid? Do you now cook that same stuff for the
children that you’re cooking for now? EOS Yeah, things like rice
pudding, tapioca, erm lemon sponge and custard. Chocolate sponge with
mint custard, that’s one of the favourites. EOS Do you think the
chemicals in the mint custard- EOS Do you think they could affect
children? EOS Er no it’s a mint- it’s a mint erm essence. EOS where-
EOS It’s a pure- pure mint essences we use. EOS Where do they get the
luminous green colour from? EOS Erm it’s a food colourant. Yeah but we
use one teaspoon for four gallons of custard. EOS That must be pretty
powerful stuff. EOS yeah EOS It is cos it only ever hi- hi- a tinge of
green, if I make it too green, they won’t have it. EOS Do you think if
you ate a spoonful of that green colouring, EOS mm, mm EOS do you
think you’d turn green? EOS If you took it neat? EOS Yeah. EOS I’m
sure it would do irreparable damage to your insides. EOS What about
your skin tone though? EOS But watered down- EOS well they do say if
you eat beta carotene, which is a natural food colourant in carrots,
that it is in tanning tablets and that’s what makes you go brown. EOS
mm EOS If you take enough of them, yeah EOS Do you think that there’s
Martians somewhere that- I dunno, on some planet outer universe, that
are green coloured, but only light green, that they might take this
green food colouring to tan them up. EOS . EOS Do you think there’d be
same type of-? EOS You’re very weird. EOS Tablets for martians? EOS
no. EOS So like you’d be like a light green martian but you’re
thinking, ‘I want to look like I’ve been on my holidays, so I’ll take
a little mouthful of Janice’s **anon** special green food colouring
and that’ll green me up.’ EOS No I don’t. EOS just no EOS yeah, that’s
a very, very weird thing to ask. EOS Anyway what else do I make? Make
all sorts of favourites, cobbler, minced beef cobbler they like. EOS
What was your favourite school meal? EOS When I was at school? EOS
Yeah what did you used to look for? You’re in the queue-. EOS Gypsy
pie. EOS Obviously you’re probably bullying a little kid in front of
you. EOS I never bullied EOS Chinese burn EOS yeah EOS yeah I never
bullied at school. EOS I was bullied. EOS Chinese burns, cow bite. EOS
No I was never- I never ever bullied at school. But my favourite thing
at school was gypsy pie. It was the best thing ever. My mum tried to
make it and she could never make it the same. EOS What’s a gypsy pie?
EOS Gypsy pie is pastry, jam, and then a mixture of desiccated coconut
and golden syrup. And one or two other bits and bobs in it. EOS Yeah,
mm that sounds nice. EOS And cornflakes, all mished together and you
put it on top and it’s just divine. EOS Couldn’t eat it now. But er-
and we used to have er mince and onion pie as well EOS nice EOS at
school with mashed potatoes and gravy. That was another big, big
favourite, cos my mum never used to make pies. EOS yeah EOS I used to
love that What was yours? EOS I can’t remember to be honest. EOS I
used to love them EOS It was all pretty bad EOS but we always used to
go back for seconds. EOS You were always quite happy when you was- you
were last in the last year to go up. EOS Cos you used to get seconds.
EOS Cos you used to get seconds, yeah. EOS mm EOS But I can’t
particularly remember anything in particular. EOS Jam and rice
pudding’s the big favourite at my school. They love it, one of their
favourite, favourite puddings. EOS Dundee biscuits. EOS Oh do you
remember them? EOS They were big wasn’t they? EOS Yeah. EOS Not as big
as a wagon wheel. EOS I used to love that, shortbread with chocolate
on the top, wasn’t it? EOS Oh yeah. EOS I used to love them EOS Used
to have them at break times. EOS Yeah used to say, ‘dundee’ underneath
didn’t they? Sugar on it underneath. Shortbread. EOS I never had one.
EOS You never had one? EOS I used to sp- No, I used to spend my money
on cigarettes. EOS Martin **anon** EOS Well that’s what you did, start
smoking at eight. EOS Eight EOS I don’t know what you’re laughing at.
EOS That’s when kids started smoking then. EOS oh, God EOS Pinch them
off your mum. Pinch money out of your mum’s purse. EOS oh my god! EOS
Cos I didn’t do any jobs for her, she was never gonna give me spends,
was she? EOS So I used to pinch money out of my mum’s purse. EOS my,
God Martin **anon**. EOS And we’d all go- we’d all go home after
school and pinch money from your mum, then club it all together and
get five Kensington’s club. EOS Five-? EOS Kensington’s club. EOS
Cigarettes? EOS Oh yeah. Or Park Drive or whatever you could get in
fives. And then have one each. EOS And do you know what he used to do
as well, when he was little? It’s terrible. EOS They er- they had a
corner shop. And they used to climb over the wall, pinch the bottles,
take the bottles, come back over, go into the front of the shop, give
the shop keeper the bottles and we used to get five p back for them
EOS was it five p or a penny or something. EOS More like a penny,
probably. In old money. EOS For his own- for his own- from his own
bottles. EOS aww EOS Terrible, you were really bad you EOS I wasn’t
really- it was normal we were just normal kids. EOS Never got in
trouble cos we didn’t get caught. EOS that’s okay then EOS Yeah, erm.
In your opinion, how has your community changed in recent years? Oh
it’s changed loads hasn’t it? EOS Er there’s a lot more er dogs
knocking about. EOS Dog poo! Dog poo’s not white any more. EOS What?
EOS Because it’s the bones. The bonemeal that used to be in dog food.
And they stopped doing it because of, is it BSM? BS- BS- EOS Er
British School of Motoring? EOS No EOS oh what’s it called? EOS The-
the- the-. EOS Mad cow disease. EOS I don’t think that had anything to
do with it. EOS Are you sure I thought that’s why they stopped doing
them. EOS I am sure yeah. EOS No white dog poo went long before then.
EOS Did it? EOS I think they just put- stopped putting calcium in the
dog food. Don’t know what reason. EOS So yeah, you don’t see white dog
poo any more. EOS No you don’t EOS Apart from my dog, who only has
white dog poo. EOS Really. EOS Cos all he eats is raw chicken EOS oh
EOS and bones, doesn’t he? EOS mm EOS aww EOS Did you have a favourite
teacher at school? I know you got the nasty ones, the nuns. Little mob
of your nuns that used to terrorise you all, but did you have a nice
teacher? EOS Er **anon** he was the headmaster. This is in secondary
school, I liked him. He was always really kind, EOS yeah EOS Firm but
kind. EOS mm EOS We used to do something well and he a- he always used
to give you sweets. We used to have a sweet called mojos. And he used
to give us a mojo to eat. EOS Was that your favourite sweet, because
you look like a bit of a curly wurly girl to me. EOS Used to love
curly wurlys as well. EOS I knew you did I could just tell by looking
at you. EOS And fudge. Fudges and curly wurlys, yeah, and I used to
love pear drops, they were my favourites and my dad used to get cough
candies for work and I always used to pinch them . EOS I remember
sweets as a kid, I remember my friends giving me sweets, my younger
brother and two of his-. EOS You never used to get any did you not?
EOS And two of his friends and two other friends, best friends, they-
the- EOS Who was your best friends? EOS **anon** and **anon** and- EOS
And they used to get sweets. EOS No they just give me some sweets one
day. EOS And as I was half way through eating them, they told me that
they were- that they actually found them. EOS Or they’d got them from
a girl called **anon** who was like the dirtiest, horriblest girl in
the whole wide world. And they said they’d got the sweets from her.
EOS And I was halfway through eating them. EOS Urgh. EOS And I had to
spit them out and be sick. EOS oh, no EOS did you? EOS Yeah EOS Oh was
she that bad? EOS She was that bad, we d- we perceived her to be that
bad. EOS Urgh. EOS And my friends gave me sweets from her. And laughed
as I was eating them. EOS and you didn’t know why they were laughing?
EOS No I just thought they were being kind. EOS Aww EOS But they
weren’t and it made me cry. EOS in front of your mates? EOS Yep cos it
was that bad. EOS How old were you? EOS About fifteen. EOS fifteen EOS
Oh get lost! how old were you? EOS I dunno, ten or summat like that.
Eight. EOS eurgh EOS Used to have that effect that’s the effect she
used to have. Scruffy, horrible girl. EOS Why was she so bad? EOS
Because she was scruffy and horrible EOS . EOS Dirty, smelly. EOS Did
she smell? EOS Yeah smelly horrible dirty, yeah EOS oh, no EOS Nobody
would ever sit next to her in class. EOS Cos she smelt? EOS Yeah cos
she’s smelly and horrible and. EOS ooh, where does she live? EOS
**anon** I think. EOS that was my address you liar! EOS It wasn’t you,
was it? EOS No it was not. EOS No she’s living in the next street. EOS
Do you know her now? EOS No. EOS no EOS I didn’t like sweets after
that. EOS Put you off. EOS Yeah put me off for life. I; EOS We’ve
still got a lot of friends that still live in the community though,
haven’t we? Still live in the same place. EOS oh, that’s nice EOS All
our lives really. EOS It’s not that- it’s not that nice really. EOS
we’re still friendly- few- quite a few friends have moved away,
haven’t they? EOS mmhmm. EOS **anon** moved away to where is he Leek?
Is it Leek? EOS Yeah it’s Leek. EOS yeah Leek. He’s moved away.
**anon** just moved to Cornwall and- But still a lot of friends-. EOS
You don’t see many old people in- in Stretford any more, or **anon**.
Is it because they’ve all died? EOS Could be. EOS Are we the old
people now? EOS We’re turning into them, yeah. Forty six, forty seven,
yeah. We’re classed as middle aged now aren’t we? EOS Cos what what
used to be the- the OAP home became the young mothers- EOS Yeah single
parent’s thing, yeah. EOS ooh EOS And that was a bit shit. EOS Yeah.
EOS Then they knocked the church down. EOS ooh EOS Yeah, where all our
kids were christened. EOS And made that social housing. EOS ooh EOS
yeah EOS Filled it full of black people. EOS Oh, just reminded me-
yeah. EOS That was a bit shit. EOS You just reminded me then when er-
when I- we used to- EOS then they knocked down **anon**. EOS Yeah when
I- EOS and took all the rubbish from there and moved that into my
community. EOS Yeah. EOS And that’s a bit shit. Then the pub we go in.
EOS **anon** yeah. EOS That used to be full of people. EOS Is now
empty all the time. EOS aww EOS And that’s a bit shit. EOS Full of
little scabby kids, isn’t it now? EOS Yeah black lads on mountain
bikes outside. EOS Scary, it’s horrible. EOS yeah EOS We don’t go in.
EOS That’s a bit rubbish yeah. EOS Er but, talking about that old
people’s place, when I went to **anon** we all used to have to go and
do stuff in the community like help a neighbour or- EOS yeah EOS and
me and one of my friends, **anon** **anon** we used to have to go to
the- that old people’s home on a- on a Saturday or Sunday and just do
something for folk, you know just EOS just help out EOS have a chat or
EOS yeah EOS go and walk round the garden with one of them. EOS
**anon**, **anon** her name was, the lady we had. Then she died. EOS
Did she leave her purse out? EOS No! EOS No she gave me an ornament, I
always remember that. I dunno what happened to it though, a little-
EOS How did you manage to smuggle that out? EOS She gave it to me! She
gave one to me. EOS Is that what you t- is that what you told your
mum? EOS She gave one to me and she gave one to **anon**. EOS aww EOS
Little fairy thing it was. All chipped and battered. Cos we always
used to dust her ornaments for her. EOS Oh that’s nice. EOS Then one
day there was one missing. EOS No she gave them you. EOS Pinching from
blooming shop keepers. EOS And I bet **anon** was old and she didn’t
know whether she’d give it you or not, did she? EOS she was old, no,
used to push her round in her wheelchair in the garden. EOS You used
to push her around you say? EOS In the wheelchair around the garden.
Cos they used to have big rose beds didn’t they, do you remember? EOS
I do remember the nice rose- they used to have- yeah tendered rose
beds. EOS Yeah they were lovely. EOS Both there and in the er- the
council housing that was across the road. EOS What was it called? EOS
**anon**. EOS **anon** that’s it. EOS Four storey high council flats.
EOS Yeah old people’s- for old people. Used to have like a community
room as well downstairs. EOS Yeah. EOS With a tv and-. EOS All very
pretty, all w- all well tended. EOS Yeah. It was it was lovely. EOS
Don’t have flower beds anymore. EOS No it’s horrible. One, two, three, four, five. EOS Okay that’s fine, after you Roger
**anon**. EOS That’s the quickest one to five I’ve ever heard. EOS
anyone? EOS What fun things are there to do in your community? What
would you say about that? What do you like to do to have fun? You like
to go for meals and EOS yeah EOS cinema, it’s a shame about the erm,
**anon** cinema closing. Or is it? EOS Who knows? EOS Well, it was a-
EOS It was a bit of an old flea pit, wasn’t it? EOS Yeah, there’s lots
of restaurants in Urmston and there’s parks for the kids. And, well
you’ve got the Trafford centre anyway, that’s not so far away, haven’t
you? EOS I suppose EOS So I think everything you need really is there.
EOS I got a text today. EOS You got the laserquest and all that
business, haven’t you? EOS mm EOS that you can go to. EOS I was- I got
a text today, from Orange. Inviting me to go out on Orange Wednesday.
EOS Did you? EOS Mm I did. I didn’t reply to it. EOS But you’re going
this Wednesday, aren’t you? Is it this Wednesday or next Wednesday?
EOS No. EOS Thought you were going with **anon**? EOS No I’m going to
me mum’s. EOS Thought you were going to the cinema with **anon**. EOS
no EOS Must have been a- another woman I heard. EOS so EOS Right, Ok,
so, talking about childhood, we both grew up only really five minutes
walk away from each other. So the sort of things that we used to do
are probably quite similar. EOS mm EOS Except, that, for the first- up
until being the- six I lived erm in **anon** which was different.
Because- different to you. EOS Because we were- there were so many of
us really cos I was- come from a family of five children, that instead
of playing out with friends we tended not really to- to want to go
outside, cos there was always gonna be one of us to play with. EOS mm
EOS So we’d always play in the back yard, it was always ball games.
Against the wall generally. Things like, we used to have a game called
‘donkey’ which was throwing a ball against a wall and jumping over it.
Which- Which kept us amused for hours. EOS Easily amused. EOS mm EOS
You know, rounders, there was always enough of us to have a team. So
we didn’t really need other people, whereas I know that you were
always out with lots of other friends. EOS Yeah I- I tended to play
more with sort of like, male friends. They weren’t- you didn’t really
hang around with girls until you got a little bit older. EOS But er
yeah and ours were like ball games. We were erm- nothing hi- tech as
today, obviously but er do pretty much sport based games. EOS But you
used to play making like go-karts and things like that, didn’t you?
EOS yeah and then we used to go swimming, things like that at the
weekend. And- but majority like sport based games, EOS yeah EOS with
l- not really involving anything erm that you needed to buy, you
tended to try and make it, or if your ball- ball burst, you repaired
it rather than just nipping out and buying another one, cos we didn’t
have the money, EOS yeah EOS really just to replace something. Y- you
tended to make do with what you had. EOS And what was- can you think
of anything that was very funny that happened to you when you were
young? EOS erm funny to who? To me or to anybody else? EOS Well, I- we
used to go fishing and er throw people in- in the water when you got a
bit fed up and you couldn’t catch any fish. EOS mmhmm EOS Or erm- EOS
mmm, no just naughty games really, wasn’t it? Like knocking on doors
was quite- and running away was quite common, or p- EOS yeah see we
never did anything like that but we used to get, erm- ma- mind you we
were in trouble for it. We got mattress going down the stairs. Because
we were always in- s- sort of in the house. EOS mm EOS Or outside, so
we would always be messing about inside really. EOS mm, well- EOS
Playing hide and seek, just things like that EOS Well we tended to be
outside more than anything obviously, and the summers always seemed
better. Mind you saying that, we’re having a good one this year. EOS
yeah EOS But we tended to be outside quite a lot. Which really got you
out of the- got you out of the like, from under your mum and dad’s
feet. And we used to erm go- not- well we used to go on our bikes, the
roads were quieter then obviously in those days, we used to go on our
bikes, down to the local river. Which was probably about six or seven
miles away. And go swimming, most days in the summer. Erm, camping, we
used to camp on like, on the local fields. Things like that quite a
lot. EOS Yeah. EOS when- erm, when the weather obviously allowed. EOS
Yeah right whereas we just used to play imaginative games as well, cos
we were always dressed up, erm, in me mum’s clothes generally. EOS
With tights on with tights on your head. EOS Because I always, always
wanted long hair. And my mum used to always keep our hair very short.
And one day somebody said to me- called me, ‘sonny.’ And from then on
I always wanted to pretend I had long hair. So I used to wear tights
on my head, with bows on the tights. EOS And you wonder why I fell for
you . EOS Most- most people wonder why I fell for you. EOS Did you
ever get hurt while playing when you were a kid? EOS Oh yes used to
fall out of trees quite often, cos we did a lot of climbing based
games and chasing each other around. EOS So we’re forever falling,
cuts and scrapes. EOS right EOS Erm- football injuries, cricket
injuries EOS That it? EOS Yeah but tree- falling out of trees was
quite a common injury. EOS Once I- I broke- broke my arm. And that
was- well it wasn’t broke actually it was erm, sort of badly bruised
but it was like a crack or something, I don’t know in the bone. But it
wasn’t particularly- it wasn’t definitely broken. But anyway it was
because me and **anon** my sister were waiting for my other sister
**anon** to come out of school. And there was a moat running round the
side- it- well it was called the moat, erm, out- outside of the
school. Erm I think it was all to do really with- that they were
knocking down a lot of erm houses near where we lived. Erm, erm and
there was like bricks and things everywhere. And it was just like a
trench, I think that was what it was. But we used to call it the moat.
And of course I was like trying to walk along the side of it and I
fell in EOS And erm- and erm **anon** had to come and get me out. EOS
mm EOS Take me to erm, to hospital. EOS Also we used to fall off a lot
of words. EOS So that was the worst thing that happened to me. EOS It
always seemed more fun to walk along the walls than it did the
pavement. So-. EOS Yeah I mean, one of the dangerous things that we
used to do, I mean thinking about it now was going into these houses,
cos they were derelict houses. So they were only like half standing.
And there’s p- some houses actually had a staircase that you would
still be able to walk up, even though there was no floor. EOS No floor
above, yeah. EOS Or half a floor at the top. EOS mm EOS And on the way
home from school sometimes we would always go in these houses, erm,
and sort of try and have a bit of an, you know, investigate what’s
going on. EOS mm. EOS But really when I think about it, it’s just so
dangerous. EOS Oh yeah, yeah we- we used to make er bonfires round
bonfire night obviously but we used to make dens in those and they
were quite big and dangerous cos erm the fire brigade generally used
to come and pull half the- the timber that you’d collected off, they
wouldn’t let you build it as big as it was. EOS And erm as soon as
they left, we used to put it all back on again. EOS And then make dens
inside them and things like that. And so it w- it was quite dangerous
times really, compared to what the kids seem to get up to today. EOS
But I didn’t know anybody who- even though- I mean we all used to play
in these- erm these houses all on- the- the Crofts, they used to be
called. And that would be like where a house was completely
demolished. EOS mm EOS And so all’s what was left was like bricks on
the floor, and glass and things. Erm but I mean everybody used to cut
across crofts. Adults used to, you know it wasn’t just the kids. EOS
mm EOS And there used to be like pass- path- pathways that went
through because it was a shortcut to wherever you lived. EOS mm EOS
Erm and I fell over there ones and I got a scar where I actually fell
on some glass. EOS mm EOS but erm that’s how it was and then everybody
moved to sort of like, certain areas in Manchester. And it just so
happened that **anon**, a lot of the community was moved to **anon**,
and that was when we moved- moved on. EOS To **anon** which was round
the corner from where you are. EOS Mm to where I was yeah. EOS But
some were moved to- I think there’s Wythenshawe, wasn’t it? EOS Yeah.
EOS And erm so there was a big new estate right up in Northern
Manchester, it was a Hattersley. And-. EOS Yeah that’s them like on-.
EOS Which was absolutely- it was lovely when it was very first done.
EOS It was very rural, it still is, rural area. EOS But now it’s s-
it’s just so rough up there, isn’t it? The estate EOS The estate’s
rough yeah it’s-. EOS And that was where- wasn’t that where Myra
Hindley was and Ian Brady? EOS But that was in the early sixties. EOS
So that would have been earlier. EOS mm, it was- yeah, EOS Yeah,
because I’m talking about sixt- sixty eight, EOS yeah EOS something
like that. EOS I think Myra Hindley was early- EOS Sixty nine. EOS
early- earlier than that. EOS Right. EOS But er yeah. EOS So there was
er- so that- can you remember a good story that your parents or
grandparents used to tell you? Eh, well my- well my mum still telling
stories now. EOS That’s just to make things- she likes to embroider
things. EOS Mm. EOS the truth EOS Ah me mum still- EOS but tells a
good yarn EOS yeah EOS I remember my mum te- still tells the story of
when she went back to Belfast and she was erm- during the war and they
were moved from Manchester back over to Belfast cos of the bombing in
Manchester and she thought it was really exciting when you were given
a- a Mae West and a whistle, in case the submarines sank your-your
ship and she- EOS she kind of couldn’t wait for it to erm, explode, so
she could have a go of her whistle and watch the light come on as she
hit the water. EOS Yeah I used to like stories that me mum told me
because me mum is- was really quite a naughty girl, and erm- but she
used to make me laugh. Because she was tell- cos her dad was erm, a
Welsh Baptist preacher. And she used to sit in the back, in the pew
that was for the family whittling her name in the wood . EOS Which
isn’t a good thing, and if he only knew, he’d have gone absolutely
mad. EOS That’s not a very religious thing, mm EOS So that’s funny.
EOS But holidays were always s- we always seemed to er- take holidays
to North Wales, usually erm, in the early days to er a bungalow, which
was- I can still remember the smell now, there were always damp musty
smells. Me mum always tried to convince me dad that they had to go in
a caravan, would be better because they were more modern. But he- he
wouldn’t have it cos he always said that they were like being in a tin
can, if it rained. And eventually she got him to go in one and he
never went in a bungalow again, cos he realised how good they were.
But it was always Wales, we didn’t have foreign holidays at all. It
was always North Wales. EOS No, whereas we didn’t really- me- cos me
dad died when er I was only two, and so me mum didn’t have a lot of
money, she went to work, back to work. And so in school holidays, we
used to get sent to erm my Gran’s house, who lived in Wales, or erm, I
used to go to an Auntie’s who lived in erm well first of all Wales and
then on to Blackpool. Erm so we would always be together. And we used
to just go on the beach. EOS All of us, or- go on the mountains and
just run around and just go wild really. **anon** gran used to give us
a good breakfast and say she didn’t want to see us back again till
teatime. And we didn;t want to go back till tea. EOS mm EOS So that
was always good times. Erm that’s- EOS I spent most of my teenage erm,
holidays on- on- on the beach, pretty much on me own. Me- me dad
didn’t like the beach. Me mum used to come for a walk but I used to
sort of like- we used to play games erm but it was pretty much- I used
to wander up and down the beach and erm, throwing stones at this that
and the other and er EOS whiling the hours away that way. But er-
didn’t really go in the- in the water much. It was- it was too cold.
But erm I remember them, erm, th- they were good holidays. I always- I
always really enjoyed them and it was nice to spend time together.
With er- we always used to buy a kite on the way down. That’s
something, erm, me dad and I always did together. EOS was kept flying
kites. Usually from the petrol station on- EOS on the way down but
they were good. And what was your least favourite teacher? I had a
least favourite teacher. **anon** woodwork teacher, horrible man. He
was erm, a bully really. Er when you look back at it he was- it was
quite scandalous the things he used to do. Erm but- not a good
teacher. Favourite teacher, **anon** from **anon**, who was really
good teacher, went on to become headmistress at a local school years
later. You had some weird and wonderful teachers didn’t you? EOS I
don’t remember primary school them being weird and wonderful. They
were actually quite sweet. There was one who was a bit strange called
**anon**, who used to have a double row of teeth at the bottom. Erm
like a sheep. EOS I don’t really know why but she did. EOS erm, she
was very scary, real old-school erm- little glasses on the end of her
nose. She looked like something like a caricature of erm a little old
fashioned teacher, with a bun, erm, but apart form that I- I think the
primary school was- they were really quite sweet but at secondary
school they- well most of them were nuns. Erm cos I went to **anon**,
so, erm, and I think the- I still think it’s quite a strange thing to
just you know, lock yourself away as a woman, EOS base education on-
EOS and just become a teacher, because I don’t really think that erm
they would know much about life. And they- they- even though they
would know their subject, I think sometimes they were at a loss to
deal with teenage girls, erm EOS mm EOS and any problems that anybody
might have. EOS mm EOS You know so erm, I think sometimes the- they
weren’t very sympathetic. EOS Or they didn’t really have a lot to say
other than their subjects. Erm so I thought that was quite strange.
And the- the, erm, head teacher was a nun and the deputy head teacher
was a nun and the deputy head teacher, **anon** used to just send fear
into everybody’s hearts. And erm- just used to- but erm the
punishments weren’t ever shouting at, it was all to do with erm- it
was all to do with church. EOS Mm, ours was-. EOS I used to have to go
and pray for forgiveness quite a few times. EOS Well ours were always
physical, they weren’t- erm, and obviously the cane and the slipper
were allowed in school when I was there. So if you did something quite
menial, or didn’t get your homework in on time or something like that,
you were hit with the slipper. Which is like usually a plimsoll or er
a gym-shoe. But some teachers gave them names, like erm- **anon**
called his ‘Oscar.’ EOS And he’d like removed everything apart from
the floppy sole, and he used to send people for er- he’d hit you say
six times with that just in case you know, er, you’d- you hadn’t done
something right. But if you were really, really in trouble, then you
had to go and see **anon**, he was the head teacher, we used to call
him **anon**, cos of his surname. But he used to have canes of various
shapes and sizes. Like he would actually ask you to hold your hand out
and- well he would erm- give you six of the best, as he called it and
it was pretty brutal really. When you think back, I certainly wouldn’t
allow my kids to be- to be hit by a- a teacher. But that was the way
life was. EOS What sorts of things did you like at school? EOS erm EOS
To do, extra activities. EOS Well I used to liked sports, used to like
playing football in a team, used to play football for the football
team, obviously, for the school football team. Erm badminton. EOS Used
to pl- like playing that. Erm but I wasn’t- I used to join the bo-
like the book clubs and history club and things like that just so that
you could get first in the line at lunch. So you could get your dinner
before everybody else EOS and then pretty much not go to the club but
at least you’d- you’d got something from it . EOS I used to like erm,
hockey, I was erm quite sort of feisty I was very- I was quite little
really erm for a long time and- but I was quite fast EOS mm EOS and I
used to just love going whooshing up and down the fields, cos it was
the one thing that I actually thought that I was pretty good at. I
don’t know if I was good but I used to feel I was good at it, and erm-
I don’t think they expected- perhaps they didn’t see me coming, I
don’t know but I used to manage to get a few goals in. So it was okay.
And I loved drama, I liked music. I still like music now, I still like
music and I still like drama. EOS And I just like to- I like to- to
escape from er- it w- it was all a bit humdrum erm and I used to like
all the colours and I used to get involved in the lighting and things
like that. And I thought that was erm, that was interesting. EOS Well
I always got a good part in the school play. I was the pied piper of
Hamblyn, although I couldn’t play a recorder EOS and I had to pretend
I was playing a recorder whilst all these er rats were running behind
me. And I played a tree, EOS I played a tree in one pl- oh no sorry it
wasn’t a tree, I was a dormouse in one play, which had to sit
underneath a tree. And this tree was actually **anon**. Because he was
like the tallest guy in the class. So he- he basically had to stand
there for twenty minutes with his arms out. While I was curled up
asleep below. And me mum said I was fantastic, I; EOS told everybody,
but no, I mean I remember the school plays, I- i generally got quite a
decent part in that or a part with- at least just a speech part or
rather than er just standing there dressed as a donkey or something.
EOS No I remember our drama teacher, **anon** who was my absolute
favourite teacher. And the reason why I liked her was because she
just- she was all perfume and scarves, and erm curly hair, and she was
very, very pretty, and was very, very loud, and used to laugh like mad
at everything people said. But erm she was lovely and she was the one
who said that I should really go to some sort of drama school. And
that- but of course me mum looked into it and she didn’t have the
money to send me. So she looked- she wrote a letter to the council to
see if they would give y- me some sort of grant EOS mm EOS but nothing
ever came of it. So that- EOS mm EOS you know I- I think I always felt
a bit let down by that, cos I felt that that was the way that I would
have liked to have gone. EOS mm EOS And I think it’s quite nice in a
way that erm my niece is- **anon** is erm going in that direction. EOS
Mm. EOS It’s almost like sort of next step, EOS Yeah. EOS so- EOS Do
you remember moving from **anon**? EOS Yeah I do, er don’t remember-
there’s- it’s- it’s sort of snatches really that I remember of
**anon** really. Erm but I remember being very excited when we came to
**anon**. And we came to see the house for the first time and it was
dark, it must been in the winter, because it was sort of- EOS Is this
**anon** yeah? EOS yeah because it was just sort of after tea time,
EOS and it was dark. And we’d only ever had a back yard. And then we
had the entry that ran down the side of the house and that was where
we used to play. There was nothing wrong with it, it was just you
know. EOS mm EOS That was just where we used to play outside. And erm
it had this huge big garden. And the garden was all a bit sort of
overgrown and things and er I went out, and even though it was dark I
just wanted to- and as I was walking along the grass I was doing steps
to see how many steps it would take me to get to the fence. EOS mm EOS
And it just seemed like forever. Was just huge EOS mm EOS erm, and I
was really excited because erm me mum said she’d get me a- a swing,
erm, which me uncle made cos everything was made, and er- he made me
this swing, that I used to spend hours on. So I just thought it was
just huge, huge great big house, when in actual fact it wasn’t, it’s
just that that’s how it felt. EOS mm, it’s like we moved erm, when I
was s- seven and yeah that was the same sort of thing- it was- it was
a bigger house that we moved to, erm with three bedrooms whereas the
previous house only had two. Erm but again the garden was a big thing
ocs it was quite a large garden. Erm I remember me dad working on it
for months when we first moved in. Although it was like awesome when
we moved in. I remember like the winter, erm and after the winter he
was really out there all the time and we used to help him get er soil.
EOS From the fields at the back, and put it in wheelbarrows and used
to give us like- can’t remember how much it was now but it wasn’t a
lot. And er we used to fill the wheelbarrow and then bring it and tip
it in the back garden. Cos it was- it was a lot lower than- than he
thought it should have been so er we must’ve put tons in there over
the years. But er- he was keen gardener my dad. He liked his garden
didn’t he? EOS mm, yeah he did. EOS mm EOS And er the other thing that
erm my uncle made me was erm, a wendy house in the back garden, erm
which I really, really liked. And I used to have little teacups and
things like that. So basically then- but as I got older erm that was
when the first time really that I started actually going- playing
outside and going to see friends. EOS mm EOS Cos I must’ve been then-
well when I was allowed t- to play out, maybe about twelve. EOS mm EOS
So I never had it when I was younger cos that was just when we were
playing with EOS yeah EOS everybody who was in the house. EOS Erm but
then we used to sort of g- go out then because it was like four years
between me and my next sister. So that would mean that if I was about
eleven, **anon** was about fifteen, and she was obviously EOS looking
after- EOS not then wanting to play EOS mm EOS hide and seek with me.
So er- so that’s when we first started going out. EOS mm, also there’s
quite a lot- EOS Roller skates and things like that. EOS There’s quite
a lot of kids in that area though wasn’t there? The- EOS yeah EOS
Everybody seemed to have- you know, every house pretty much had kids.
There was a few like old dears whose maybe kids had grown up and gone.
But there was a lot of kids in the area at the time. EOS But I think
that’s probably because a lot of people had moved in as families. EOS
Yeah from different-. EOS Because to move in- to get a council house
you generally had children, didn’t you? EOS Yeah, yeah EOS Otherwise
you might have been moved into a flat. EOS Yeah that’s quite true
yeah. EOS So I think it’s when they were moving whole communities that
that’s where we were all- sort of seemed to be sort of similar age
groups really. EOS Yeah. EOS The families seemed to have children sim-
similar ages. EOS mm, everybody’s of a similar erm- like pay-scale as
well, weren’t they? EOS Background, yeah. EOS Everybody was like
working- you know working class. EOS erm, Dads all worked in Trafford
Park at the time, or the majority didn’t they? There was no- erm you
know, EOS yeah EOS the odd person had a car. Which I remember, I must
have been about ten or so like, when we- when- when me dad got a car.
EOS Yeah. EOS Used to have a motorbike and he had a canal barge EOS
yeah EOS which he- him and his friend worked on. I suppose to get a
little bit more money, when I think back. I know he- he always fancied
having a canal barge that he could you know maybe go on holiday and
weekends, but he’s- he tended to spend you know, one day of the
weekend erm working on this boat that I never actually saw, although I
know it was called **anon**. I think I saw it once actually, but I
never saw it float. It was always in dry dock and er- but I suppose y-
you get to meet the other people with boats and what have you, we
actually went on a few boats, for day trips up and down the
Bridgewater canal. And it was- it was nice community, it was really-
everybody- and some had like made sandwiches and there was always big
picnics and this that and the other and other kids to play with, so
that was good fun, it was good times. EOS mm EOS Again the sun always
seemed to be shining. EOS And it seems funny that- I mean the
community- I mean **anon**, what you looking at, say about four miles
away? EOS From- from **anon**? EOS Yeah. EOS Yeah, yeah. EOS yeah, and
the whole- because whole communities moved at once, some of our
neighbours that were actually on our street- cos it was a bit of a-
quite a large Irish community, wasn’t it in **anon**? EOS I didn’t
really know a lot about **anon**, to be honest. EOS It was erm- and
some of our neighbours, who lived there, actually still live- you
know, in **anon** now. EOS mm EOS Sort of round the corner cos we all
sort of moved en masse. EOS mm EOS So erm- it seems funny that
although my mum has moved away, you know she went from **anon** to
**anon** and then on- on from there. That when she comes back to this
area, that she’s still bumping into old neighbours. EOS Yeah. EOS
Original neighbours from **anon**. EOS Mm, I think a lot of people
were happy when they moved because, they did- like I was saying
before, they did get a garden, which they didn’t have before. And
there did seem to be a bit more space, and-. EOS and also- it was
rubbish when you- when you think about it, you were actually living in
rubble. Well you weren’t your house was in the middle maybe of - EOS
Yeah. EOS And then the next road had been flattened. EOS mm EOS So you
know it wasn’t good conditions t- to live in. EOS No. EOS So- and me
mum used to say and I know this wasn’t very nice and I don’t remember
it as a- as a child, but my mum used to say that there was lots of erm
mice EOS Mm, EOS erm and I suppose that maybe there would be. EOS I
would imagine yeah, mm EOS So- what do you think- er have changed or
what important changes have taken place in our town? Well I suppose
thinking about it, one of the major changes is the Trafford centre.
Isn’t it? EOS Yeah, course it is, yeah EOS erm, I actually think EOS
it’s probably one of the biggest shopping centres in Europe isn’t it?
EOS Yeah, I mean really it’s- I- and I mean a lot of people don’t like
it, I don’t really know why because I just think it’s erm- it’s
brought a lot of work into the area. EOS mmhmm. EOS Erm people are
coming in, so you’ve got money that’s coming in- into it. EOS It’s
open late - EOS It’s er ideal for- for us, EOS mm EOS I mean I just
love the fact that it’s round the corner. EOS Mm, that’s right. EOS Er
you’ve got the pictures, you’ve got the restaurants, EOS mm EOS so I
can’t really see a problem with it at all. EOS No I mean when they
built like the shopping centre at Stretford, the Stretford Precinct,
that’s totally different. People- when it was first built it was so-
people thought it was fantastic, cos you didn’t get wet when you were
shopping, if it was raining you could still wander from shop to shop.
EOS Yeah. EOS Once you were inside there, you were- you know, you were
dry and erm- but it seemed to like rip the heart out of the centre of
Stretford. Because when it closed, it was like a huge area that you
couldn’t get into, so there was no- EOS yeah EOS whereas if there was-
in the old community, there was pubs and- and- not so much restaurants
cos I don’t think they had like restaurants in those- in our early
days, did they, your Mum and Dad didn’t tend to go out for a meal most
weekends. EOS No, no. EOS Cos they didn’t have the money but er it
just seemed to be like a big void in the centre of the town that was
only used from nine ‘til six and then er and then closed. But I think
the Trafford centre’s different because it does involve cinemas and-
yeah. EOS Lots of different- yeah. EOS Things that you can do and it’s
not just a shopping centre it’s- it is a place that-you know, y- you
can virtually spend all day there. Couldn’t you? EOS Oh God, I did on
Saturday. . EOS Yeah and most- most other Saturdays But yeah that-
that has been a big change and erm the renovation of the centre of
Urmston, I think that’s for the- for the good as well. EOS yeah I do
too. EOS Er- and I think they’ve learnt by mistakes they’ve done in
previous place- like Sale. When they did the centre of Sale and- and
they rejuvenated that, the parking’s just a nightmare, whereas what
they’ve done in Urmston I think’s really good. I’ve not personally
struggled to get in and out where- you know, or find a parking space
whereas I know people in Sale, you can drive round for like three
quarters of an hour looking for somewhere to park. EOS Right. EOS And
er with it being free parking as well. EOS Whereas some- some of these
places, like Altrincham, pretty much charge to park, don’t they? EOS
Yeah I mean I know it’s not a finished thing yet but one of the- it-
it’s- it’s good that they’re keeping the- the small shops as well. EOS
Yeah. EOS Because like- well we’ve got photographs of I don’t know,
what a hundred years ago? EOS Yeah just turn of the century yeah. EOS
And it doesn’t- really there’s parts of it that you would still
recognise. EOS well, yeah you can still see which shop- yeah. EOS As
being Urmston now and I think that’s important. Because it- it’s part
of the history of the time EOS mm, but also like I was saying before,
you can’t close it off, because it’s on the street and you know, where
there’s coff- coffee you know, erm, lounges and restaurants then-
although they’re not undercover, pe- I don’t think people are that
interested any more so it still is a town. EOS yeah EOS Whereas I
think all these places that they put precincts, they kind of like- EOS
Yeah, but I think there is a community in Urmston. Erm it think that
they’ve got some good schools, which makes people stay in the same
place. EOS mmhmm. EOS Erm they’ve got good secondary schools so again,
you’re moving from infant, junior to secondary school EOS mmhmm EOS
without the need to move, that some people do have to move around for
EOS mmhmm EOS good education for their children, whereas we’re lucky
enough to have that here. EOS yeah EOS Erm and so that sort of makes a
communities EOS mm EOS spirits carry on. Erm local events, such as
that fiesta, Urmston fiesta but even so, it’s still good. EOS Summer
fiesta. EOS Summer fiesta. EOS Yeah it’s the start of something that
you would hope, EOS erm- EOS in years to come will get bigger and
bigger and EOS yeah EOS more and more people take part, so it- yeah I
think it’s a good idea. Definitely. EOS Wasn’t there an Urmston
carnival? EOS mm EOS So you see, it’s things like that, so they are
still trying EOS mm EOS and of course, you’ve got the round table,
you’ve got the rotary. EOS Mm. EOS Is it the round table or the rotary
club, I think it’s probably the same thing actually. EOS at Christmas
EOS Erm, again that’s based in Urmston. EOS mm EOS So you’ve got that
going on as well. EOS mm EOS That, you now people going round. You’ve
got lots of social clubs as well. I mean I know we’ve not really- we
don’t really go to them. EOS But you’ve got like the labour club.
Which is the one up the road? **anon** I don’t know if that’s labour
or what. EOS That’s an ex-servicemen’s club. It’s very popular, yeah.
EOS Right. Okay but you’ve got the conservative club up here, EOS
mmhmm EOS you’ve got the one next to Urmston grammar. EOS You’ve got
the new conservative club, yeah, yeah. EOS So there’s a few places to
go. But it’s- it’s funny to think that erm- in Altrincham people seem
to know Urmston. People come in to Urmston to use the- you know to go
to the restaurants. EOS mm EOS So even though it’s a teeny tiny place,
it’s almost- it’s still a place to come to. EOS Yeah. EOS Which is er
quite unique I would say EOS Mm. EOS really EOS Yeah it’s- I think
it’s a shame like the cinema couldn’t have sort of like made it
through recession and what have you, but I just think people- it
needed so much money spending on it, didn’t it? But it- it seems to be
thriving as like a dance-. EOS and you wonder really whether any local
cinemas are going to stay. EOS Yeah there’s not very many left at all.
EOS Cos there’s that many big cinemas now, with all the different. EOS
mm EOS You know erm facilities really to be able to have so many films
on at once, that it’s not likely. EOS Yeah some of them in the past,
you remember like **anon** in erm-. EOS The what, **anon**? EOS
**anon**, that was in **anon**. That was where I was first gonna take
you to see James Dean EOS and then- and then they pulled it, because
they used to do erm say like a James Dean series or- and they’d-
they’d- they’d show his films, or then they’d show such and such a
thing and it was a bit more erm- not just like run-of-the-mill
blockbuster films and just next one and the next one and the next one.
They tended to do like series. They did- they did a erm, church in
Chorlton’s started doing it recently, you know the big church near
erm- the catholic church where- EOS **anon**? EOS Is it **anon**?
Yeah, on the f- the one on the fork? EOS mm EOS Yeah the one on the
right hand side, that does- go past that and it’ll have like- seems
crazy sometimes, but you have like gangster series, and it’ll be
showing all the ‘Godfathers.’ EOS And it’s- it’s like a- it- it-
because it’s in- in the church it- it’s not run by the church but they
obviously use like the church hall. EOS Yeah. EOS But there’s always
big adverts saying like ‘gang’- all Al Capone films and this that and
the other, all . EOS Yes well they’ve got something like that in
Manchester haven’t they? EOS On the corner h- the what’s it called?
EOS The corner house. EOS The c- the corner house. EOS yeah, that’s
right EOS yeah EOS Yeah where they- rather than just showing
mainstream, run-of-the-mill blockbusters, they er yeah try something
different. EOS Yeah. EOS But it keeps them op- keeps them going and-
and not everybody wants to see Bruce Willis in his vest. Which I
believe he’s brought out a new aftershave. What we were saying, why
would you want to smell like Bruce Willis looks? EOS In his sweaty
vest. EOS do you know what I mean? In his sweaty vest, yeah. Would you
? How many brothers and sisters do you have? How long have you got?
EOS Well, no I’ve got four haven’t I? I’ve got one brother and three
sisters. And did we get along when we were kids? Generally, yeah
**anon** EOS I think you had to EOS Yeah I think we did. Erm **anon**
was- we used to do as we were told with **anon** cos he was always the
babysitter, although he wasn’t the eldest, erm he was the second
eldest. But even **anon** who is the eldest used to do as she was told
from him. So- but apart from that- but he was never horrible, he just
used to erm- if we didn’t get the number right on united’s football
team, on the- . EOS He used to rap your knuckles. EOS He used to shout
. Erm I used to really look forward to Saturday nights because that
was when me mum and me uncle use to go out. They used to go to bingo.
And er they used to- that was when we used to get our spends. So we
always used to get some sweets. EOS and watch whatever we liked on the
tv. And then we always used- they used to come in about ten o’clock
and although I was probably too young then, I used to sort of pretend
I used to join in but I don’t really remember it so I’m sure I was up
in bed before then. Erm but they used to always scuttle up to bed
about ten minutes before they were due home, EOS mm EOS so, EOS that
was the usual way, well I- I have two sisters. One three years- three
years er older and one seven years younger so I think- I don’t think
there was much planning in erm- in our **anon** being born. Probably a
mistake EOS but er yeah I- I tended to let them do the girly things
and I did the er- did the lad’s things. So I’ve never been really that
close to them, but- EOS Do you think you were spoilt because you were
the only boy? EOS why would I- Spoiled? No not at all, far from it!
EOS I’d still have to get up and light the fire on a Sunday, me
sisters didn’t. But they used to do the erm- help my mum I suppose
more with the cooking and-. EOS Did you have to help out around the
house? EOS Erm, no not really I used to er-. EOS Cos you were spoilt
EOS I wasn’t spoilt at all! I- I used to make my own bed . But I
didn’t change the sheets, I think that me mum did that. Probably every
three or four months, whether they needed changing or not. But er no I
didn’t do a lot of housework really, don’t think but I use to help me
dad in the garden. Or I’d be sent off to the shops for you know,
running errands. So it’s not like- I didn’t get away with anything,
just different things. EOS No we used to- we used to have jobs. But we
didn’t think- it wasn’t sort of unfair. Erm mine wasn’t much of a job,
cos I was the little one. So mine was to put the milk bottles out
after they’d been washed. EOS Good God, that’s not-. EOS I know, it
wasn’t difficult. But once-. EOS No did you have to do that every day?
EOS Well once I got into trouble because I went to take the milk
bottles out and this was about seven o’clock after dinner. And erm I
was only little. EOS And I don’t know what- I think I’ve heard
something, some music or something like that. And decided to go
walking to see what the music was. Only I just actually got lost. I
was only little and erm I don’t remember much about it. I just
remember walking and walking and walking. And then finally being
picked up by the police. And the police brought me home. EOS mm EOS
And I can remember sitting in the police station sitting on top of a
counter, a big counter erm eating smarties. And I thought it was
fantastic. And then I came home in a police car. EOS Bet you do it
every other week then. No I’ve never been in a police car. EOS But I
don’t really remember- I think I was- must’ve been very young I’m sure
I must’ve only been about four or five. So even little, really young,
I still had a job to do which was the milk bottles EOS mm EOS But even
after that, we just used to share it really. Because me mum used to
work so our only other job were things like we always used to erm- I
used to vac- we didn’t used to have a vac, we used to have erm, what
are they called? EOS A Ewbank. EOS Ewbank. EOS yeah EOS And the
Ewbank- I used to have a- my job was to do that every night, which was
just the rugs really. EOS mm C And erm **anon** job was to- oh no that
was **anon** job was to peel the spuds. I can’t remember what- I’m
sure **anon** used to get off scot- free. No, I’m sure she didn’t, but
anyway. So that was er- we all had a job each. And it was generally to
make the tea EOS mm EOS for when me mum came home. And then me mum
used to finish it off though. EOS Yeah my mum used to work, and erm,
and me dad used to work shifts. So if he was home first he pretty much
just sat there and waited for me mum to come home. EOS Yeah. EOS But
then years later he changed, I don’t know- became a modern man. EOS
And actually half got- my mum would half get the tea ready before she
went and he- he’d put the tea on knowing- cos she was always home at
the same time cos she only worked across the road. EOS mmhmm EOS Erm
knowing that she’d be home at six, me dad would start tea at like
twenty to six, or so and- and it was virtually ready when me mum came
home, EOS mm EOS and then she would er serve it up. EOS I mean the
thing is, it’s- it’s qu- you know like everyone now is like sort of,
if they’ve got a big family it’s all a big deal of how they gonna feed
them and they need to be on all sorts of benefits. But really, my mum
used to just do big, cheap, nutritious meals EOS mm EOS that would put
some people to shame I think now. EOS mm EOS You know I mean great
big- er we always used to have like a proper meat and veg or erm if we
were gonna have fish it was that smoked finny haddock, cos it’s cheap.
EOS mm EOS Or she used to make great big stews always- it always used
to be something like a casserole, EOS mm EOS or something like that.
Or the one thing that I used to love that she did was er mince beef
and onion pie. EOS mm EOS And she used to do this huge great big thing
and then we used to have that with new potatoes that came from a tin,
which is funny. Don’t know why she used to do that. But I think they
must have been cheap. EOS mm EOS But they were like little bullets,
they were horrible. EOS Yeah I re- I remember the things you mean. But
I don’t think- we didn’t have them much. EOS erm, yeah but we always
used to have this big minced beef and onion pie, which was just
lovely. EOS mm EOS so, er I think she did these ti- those tinned
potatoes EOS yeah food you didn’t have so much choice. EOS as like a
treat really. EOS Mm. EOS But I d- never used to like them. EOS You
used to get those people who used to buy er- pies in a tin. EOS You
think- they used to just steam them didn’t they? We never had them cos
they were from-. EOS No we didn’t cos there were too many of us so-
EOS yeah, but- EOS we would’ve had to have all these tins. EOS some
people would have them, and they were made by goblin. Goblin foods.
EOS And you basically you just I think you pricked a hole in it and
then put it in a pan of boiling water. EOS I remember when erm Vesta
curries first came in. EOS Oh yeah, that was-. EOS And er **anon** and
**anon** used to have them cos it was like really hip. EOS mm EOS And
er I used to just- the smell of curry was really quite different. EOS
Can you imagine my dad? EOS And I used to think he was so modern,
**anon**, you know, really hippy having this curry. EOS Mm, We used to
buy them but my dad used to go mad cos obviously he’d- he’d never had
anything like that. EOS And just the smell of that, he- yeah, erm, He
weren’t very popular, but there was a Chinese one as well. EOS There
was like a noodle one. EOS Chow mein, that’s the one **anon** used to
have. EOS Chow mein that’s it. EOS And it had like crisps on the top,
like quavers. EOS that’s it, yeah, yeah EOS And she used to sizzle
them in the chip pan. EOS I just used to think that was- but I didn’t
ever think that I was grown up enough EOS mm EOS to have these, I
think I used to think it was something, EOS yeah EOS ‘when I’m a
teenager, I’m going to have a curry.’ EOS but I can remember pizzas as
well. When **anon** was at school she must’ve been about fourteen or
so, she made this pizza. And it was like pretty much the first time
I’d ever had pizza, but it wasn’t- wasn’t like a pizza, it was like
you know, flour, just- it was like erm- more like a-. EOS Like a bread
base or something. EOS Yeah, yeah but it was really, really thick
bread with like cheese and tomato on it, or tomato puree. EOS Like
cheese on toast EOS Yeah it was yeah, but with tomato puree, you know
like **anon** makes now. And it was erm- that was it but it just had
like a little bit of erm, green or yellow pepper which was really like
unheard of at the time. And erm me mum used to love it when **anon**
made that, she used to- you know especially when she used to make it
at school and then bring it home. EOS And then heat it up again for
tea, EOS yeah EOS it was like, you felt like you were really
continental. EOS You know, ‘we don’t need the chip pan tonight.’ EOS
Yeah. EOS Cos pretty much everything I think involved chips I think as
well. EOS No well it did sometimes for us but we’d have these- I
wonder where the hell she got those tinned potatoes from? EOS mm EOS
Because they were just there all the time. EOS mm, I know we- we used
to have like boil- boiled potatoes. And things like that and obviously
like we used to- we’d have like Sunday roast but we did- I think we
had quite a lot of chips. Although, we were quite skinny kids, I don’t
know why- why we weren’t big fatties. EOS mm EOS Perhaps we ran it all
off. EOS Yeah EOS mm EOS I can remember when erm- I know it’s- well
you wouldn’t even think it now, but when yoghurts first came in. EOS
God I-. EOS When it first came in, I mean you know when it started
getting popular. EOS Mm. EOS And er it was ski yoghurts, EOS mm EOS
they were the ones to have. And er me mum used to do a weekly shop.
EOS And as a treat, like you would bring home a cream cake, it would
be, ‘right would you like a yoghurt? Which one would you like?’ EOS
mmhmm EOS And I would always have strawberry. And **anon** would
always have mandarin. EOS mm EOS And I used to think- I used to feel a
bit sorry for her because clearly strawberry was going to be the best.
EOS no, we didn’t have yoghurts. Didn’t ever- EOS I can’t ever
remember having a yoghurt when I was a kid. I was probably about
sixteen, seventeen before I saw a yoghurt. I don’t think- yeah
definitely. Used to have quite a lot of carnation milk. And tinned
fruit. EOS Tinned- yeah tinned. EOS Everybody had- I think everyone
had like tinned pears and-. EOS Tinned pears, yeah. EOS Mixed fruit,
like oranges and apples all chopped up. EOS Well going back to these
tinned potatoes, me uncle used to bring home, and I think it’s from
bingo, I’m not quite sure where he got them from. And it was trays and
trays of tins. Only they didn’t have labels on them. EOS mm EOS Well
they did but they were all white. So you didn’t actually know what you
were having. EOS mm EOS So you might have opened it, hoping for some
peaches and it would be a tin of carrots. EOS mmhmm EOS Or something
like that . So sometimes- so then if you’d opened a couple of tins of
carrots, looking for your peaches, obviously that was what your meal
would have been the next day. EOS mm EOS Something with- and that’s
how we used to work it. EOS I tell you what we used to buy- did you
have- ever have the er frankfurter sausages? EOS No, never. EOS We
used to get those in tins, they were great those, they were EOS No.
Never used to have anything like that. Me mum was a bit funny about
sausages. Which is probably why I’m a bit funny about them now, EOS mm
EOS and she still doesn’t eat them. EOS No these were great. They were
full of Es and everything. EOS yeah, yeah, no, she- she- EOS there was
every E in the world was in those. EOS We never had anything like
that, not that we did anything that was horrible or anything, the food
we had was lovely but-. We never had things like beefburgers or
anything because we didn’t have a fridge, that was the reason as well.
Although I know those are tinned sausages. EOS mm EOS Cos erm we just
used to keep everything in the pantry, which was cold and then in the
summer the milk used to be in big saucepans of cold water. We used to
just have to change the water, make it cold. EOS mm, mm. EOS It used
to work I don’t remember anything being- going off. EOS No but you
used to pretty much shop- you didn’t like weekly shop did you in those
days, it was- it was EOS No, cos it was not really big supermarkets,
was it, EOS no EOS it was just like your local shops really. EOS mm
EOS So EOS Mm, but I know we used to have er cereals as well. I
remember when it all- all these new cereals came out, like ricicles
and rice crispies. And this- you always tried- when a new one came out
on tv you always wanted to try it. Pretty much like you with anything
new that comes on the tv these days. EOS within a week, we’ve got one!
EOS do you want to do something else? There is a problem with the Left channel between 02.06 and 02.20
meaning Rhys is much more difficult to hear during this period EOS
just count to three EOS one, two EOS one, two, three, one EOS yep EOS
one, two, three, is that working? EOS two, three EOS yep, that’s fine,
thank you EOS ah, that’s alright, ah, that’s alright, here, you were
talking about these cubes before, I’m not going off that for the time
being, EOS I’m gonna just talk about these cos **anon** has put the
numbers on those there, EOS oh yeah EOS so he’s done tho- you see that
one, this was a puzzle we got it was erm EOS that’s not right that EOS
yeah, it is, that’s- that’s right on there EOS oh yeah, I suppose it
is EOS so that was that one, so I think he’s done that- it took him
three days to do that but he’s erm, he just persevered and persevered
and that was it, and he’s done them all, so that was erm, that’s
pretty good, and the other thing is, erm, what was I gonna say, I’ve
got your- those ‘Kiss’ magazines for you, EOS ooh EOS about time too
and all EOS I was gonna say, mm, yeah EOS and there’s a DVD that I
bought from- EOS and what was that like? EOS oh it was- well, we
watched it last night, I put it on, erm, it was a concert that was
recorded for- in the MGM grand EOS that should’ve been on the
internet, it should’ve been streamed on the internet EOS yeah EOS and
the servers crashed apparently so they didn’t watch it, and erm, but
the concert went ahead, but there’s on- the must’ve only been about
four hundred people there EOS was there? EOS and it was- but it was
just invited guests, but anyway, it’s just a DVD EOS is it any good?
EOS aye, it’s alright but it’s- but again, it’s- it’s only like four
songs, so I mean it’s- EOS four songs?! EOS yeah EOS but it EOS that’s
not a concert EOS I know, but it was only like erm, a promotion thing
for the- for- I dunno if it was opening a hotel or- EOS you’ve been
ripped off Noel **anon** EOS it w- it was only two ninety-nine the-
the DVD, so we watched that anyway, so we did that, so I’ve put that
in the packet for you as well EOS oh thanks EOS so I’ve got that, so I
can trade you for your Classic Rock magazine EOS oh well, EOS so
you’ll be alright with that so have you been at Dad’s today? EOS yeah
EOS what’ve you been doing? EOS painting EOS have you? EOS did the
ceiling EOS right EOS ceiling is done and the s- that dado rail’s done
EOS right EOS un- undercoated, erm EOS - EOS then we moved the
furniture so we can get in and do some EOS stuff tomorrow and EOS
right EOS I mean, it’ll be done in a room and- EOS has he repaired the
ceiling? EOS yeah EOS he has EOS it’s been done, went to B and Q as
well, so EOS what did he- what did he need? Just to get some plaster
on it or has he sort of done it Problem with right channel EOS plaster
is fine he’s EOS right EOS **anon** done that flashing, then he’ll be-
be alright EOS oh has he been up on the- has- oh has he been on the
roof and done that? Right channel resumes EOS well, he was at some
point yeah, so if that’s been done then EOS he wants to come to our
house and d- I saw him in the pub you know the- EOS yeah, and he wants
to come to my house and all EOS he was in- EOS in- in fact, he came to
the **anon** last- last Thursday EOS and I knocked his head in EOS
yeah, and I said erm, ‘so are you coming to our house’ is it- oh he
said, ‘I’ve- I’ve- I been to your Dad’s to do his- to do his roof’ and
I says, ‘well, you want to come to our house and do ours’ and he went
‘oh, I’ve been really busy’ I thought, ‘you lazy bastard, you’ve done
nothing’ EOS yes, nothing EOS I thought, ‘he hasn’t done it’ so erm,
so that was erm- so that- so is Dad- did Dad say anything about
working with me tomorrow? EOS yeah, I think- erm, no, he’s not working
with you tomorrow I don’t think EOS right EOS I think **anon** gonna
carry on painting EOS oh right, I- EOS do some stuff EOS cause I- EOS
then I think he’s with you on Thursday or something EOS right, that’s
tomorrow EOS oh is it, Friday then EOS did he say Friday, he might
come down on Friday EOS Friday I think EOS right EOS but I mean like,
once that ceiling’s done, I mean there’s nothing to those walls in
that room EOS no EOS to be honest EOS cause he was saying about- when
he was saying about getting a- a new bed he was saying about moving
his old bed into there and I said, ‘you don’t want’- and getting
himself a four foot bed or something, and I said, ‘you don’t want to
do that, you just want- you just wanna, erm, use a bed that you’ve,
you know, use his old bed for him and buy a new bed for that EOS yeah
EOS for that room, so I’m sure he’ll do that eventually anyway EOS no,
I hope so EOS so he should be alright with that one so have you been-
are you working the rest of this week or are you off for- for the-
the- at all this week? EOS I’m working tomorrow and then I’m working
Friday and Saturday, off Sunday EOS right, are you working d- days
Saturday or evenings? EOS evenings EOS right cos I was gonna- I- I
think at some point I’ll have to try and get down t- town cos I wanna
go to that **anon** and what’s the other one? EOS I could maybe do
that during the day or something EOS yeah, but but are you working
during the day? EOS I’m not working ‘til five I think EOS right EOS I
think I’m working at five EOS just depends what time I get away cos I-
I won’t finish ‘til half one or something EOS oh EOS so I’ll have to
erm, we’ll have to have a- have to have a think- about- about going
over there cos with **anon** and **anon** away, we’ve got like a free
weekend, although, **anon** going to see erm, Les Miserables or
something is it, at erm, The Lowry EOS oh right EOS she’s going there
with erm, **anon** and **anon** they’re having like a girly night- a
girly night out so erm, hopefully might- might get away on Saturday so
that looks alright EOS mm, okay EOS so we’ll go at erm, we’ll just
have a- a quick these. Can you r- remember, yeah, where did you go to
school? It says on here come on with you, come on, I know exactly
where you went EOS well, secondary school Noel **anon** EOS yeah,
secondary school EOS well, **anon** oh dear EOS and where was and what
sorry? EOS oh dear EOS no they weren’t- weren’t the best days of your
life at- no, it was alright, I think I’d er- it says here, did you
ever get into trouble at school? EOS no, I was very good EOS unlike me
EOS unlike you, Noel **anon** EOS I was ver- I was very good at
school, and I think there was a lot of pressure from Mum and Dad,
well, certainly from Mum to do well, erm EOS at school? EOS yeah EOS
why? EOS why? cos I think **anon** had done well at secondary school,
so because I think she was classed as intelligent, I was expected to
follow suit, erm and I didn’t think I could erm, kind of do that well
really, and it really used to bother me, that I wasn’t intelligent
enough and I was really quite scared about not going to grammar school
EOS yeah EOS and going to a secondary school but, in the end of the
day I’ve got the qualifications and I suppose won’t, so I think there
was some- some pressure EOS yeah EOS not from outside or from the
school, I don’t think the sc- the school or friends or neighbours
really cared about anything but I think EOS I think it was Mum who-
for Mum it was important that you- or I think for me, my standard was-
was to study and do the right thing I think EOS yeah, I didn’t feel
any pressure at- EOS at school EOS no you didn’t, no EOS no I didn’t
at all I just- I just didn’t wanna go to **anon** EOS yeah EOS which
was- which was erm, I didn’t wanna go there so but I- I don’t recall
e- e- when we went to **anon** EOS well you never went EOS I did, I
did go to school but I mean, I- I missed the odd day and I think but,
I- I just erm, I d- I didn’t feel- feel pressure with **anon** I
suppose because she went- she went to the girls grammar and- and I
think she’d- but I- I always felt as though I was following in your
footsteps at school because all the teachers sorta knew you, so every
time I mentioned my name, they goes, ‘oh you the brother of- of- are
you **anon** brother?’ and then y- you know, but you were quite good
at school, so I mean, it- EOS I was good at- I was good at most things
and some stuff I wasn’t EOS yeah, whereas I didn’t- I didn’t sort of
like, I didn’t do any homework, as such, and I didn’t erm EOS I didn’t
sort of erm, I mean- I mean I went to lessons but I mean I- I didn’t
work- work as hard as probably I could’ve, I didn’t sort of, use my
full potential, so to speak EOS I think if somebody had actually
turned round and said, ‘it doesn’t really matter sometimes’ EOS yeah
EOS ‘and you can mess up and you don’t have to get great grades and
that’s still okay’ then I think that would’ve been a good thing, but
EOS yeah EOS it was kind of never really said so, I think you’d- I
just EOS I- EOS I just wanted to do well and I- I mean I didn’t mind
staying in and studying, I think, you know, I was perhaps a bit more
introvert than you EOS yeah, I don’t , but, yeah EOS in some respects
EOS see that’s it, I didn’t erm, I didn’t like the staying in,
studying bit, I’d rather be out playing foot- you know, playing
football or messing about with- with people so that’s erm- that was my
school days EOS well I think I preferred the books EOS yeah EOS rather
than the football, and the physical stuff, no EOS oh I couldn’t read,
I could- well, I could read but I didn’t bother EOS didn’t bother with
that one, I liked doing Maths but I mean that was erm, EOS that was-
that wasn’t too bad, so erm, I was gonna ask you another question then
I can’t remember what it was, cos erm, what was it about, wasn’t about
school, it was about something else EOS I was gonna do- oh yeah, how
was Leeds, when you went to Leeds? EOS we- EOS cause you just- with
**anon** EOS erm, Leeds was good, about half an hour before I met
**anon** she’d split up with her boyfriend EOS sh- oh I see EOS so
erm, that wasn’t a good thing, erm, but yeah it was good fun, we went
for dinner and- EOS where do you go- where do you go for your lunch?
EOS **anon** EOS is that just a ch- is- was that a chain a bars or is
that a restaurant or something or EOS it’s an Ir- Irish Wetherspoons
EOS oh right EOS cheap EOS is it? EOS yeah EOS or is it like one of
those EOS very ch- very cheap EOS one of th- EOS so we went there cos
we had no money EOS oh right, so is that one of those where you can
get eight- you know, two meals for two qu- eight quid or ten quid or
something? EOS one meal for about three pound fifty or something EOS
oh, bloody hell EOS so that was- that was good and had a walk round
Leeds EOS yeah EOS nice sunny, vibrant city EOS oh good EOS erm, EOS
did you get the train up there or coach? EOS caught the train EOS
yeah, how much is that now? EOS about fifteen pound EOS that’s not-
EOS fifteen pound an- an hour’s journey EOS that’s alright, it’s like
a bus service that isn’t it, didn’t- is- is it every hour or every
half hour or something? EOS every twenty minutes EOS yeah EOS so that
was good, EOS I remember that one EOS I enjoyed Leeds EOS so do you
prefer- what’s erm- do you prefer Manchester or Leeds as a city? cos
it’s- EOS as a city? EOS yeah EOS erm, well I don’t know Leeds- I
don’t know Leeds well enough EOS well you’ve been a few times now
haven’t you? EOS yeah, to know whether I’d- I’d prefer it as a city
EOS right EOS but I mean I think you could say that Manchester’s- most
people would say that Manchester outside of London, is erm, probably
the- the- the second capital of the UK EOS yeah EOS so many people
want to study here at University, so many people would come here for
work I think, erm, nightlife, social activity EOS mm EOS for a big
city, it’s very vibrant EOS yeah EOS you got all your quarters, from
the gay village to EOS the Chinese quarter, to the Northern quarter,
to expensive shops from Harvey Nichols to, little cafes and
restaurants and everything so it’s a place I think young people would
want to come EOS yeah EOS erm, and good transport links as well EOS I
quite like erm, getting the- go on EOS but I think- I think Leeds is-
is- is erm, kind of a clean and modern city as well EOS yeah EOS erm,
EOS I think yeah, I like going into- I mean I’ve never been into Leeds
but I mean I like getting the train, you know, when we’ve got the
train into Manchester from- from Urmston and you know, just had a-
like a Saturday night in there, I mean it’s not a late night for- for
us, cos I mean the last train back- train that’s back is what, quarter
past eleven or something so I mean, you’re not out all night but, you
know, like you say about going into the bars, there’s a lot of bars up
at Deansgate, and just have a- a few beers or a little restaurants in
there and, I mean it’s quite a good night out and it’s, I mean like
you say, I mean there’s so many people in there compared to EOS you
know, Urmston I suppose on a- on a Saturday and, I was gonna say as
well, that I don’t- I feel more threatened in Urmston going for a
drink then I do- then I do in the centre of Manchester EOS I don’t
think Manchester’s threatening at all EOS no I don’t, no, but I’m just
saying the amount of people that are in there, you know all having a-
having a few beers and, well it’s like at three in the morning I don’t
know, cos I never stay out that late EOS what, when something’s
kicking off? EOS yeah yeah it used to, when I was- yeah, that’s it,
half two in the morning when- what was that- what was that- I just
can’t think of that bar EOS that club EOS **anon**- there was **anon**
I don’t know if that’s still there, do you remember **anon**? EOS
that’s probably burnt down Noel **anon** EOS yeah, **anon** EOS I mean
somebody’s- somebody’s torched it I should think EOS **anon**-
**anon**, remember **anon** remember when we used to go in there so
that was erm, so that was erm, that was good, cos I was saying to you,
it’s- do you think that Ma- Manchester compared to **anon** where you
used to live, now that’s two different cities, cos **anon** more of a
cultural city than Manchester isn’t it EOS do I prefer it or EOS yeah
EOS do you want me just to compare them? EOS just where- wit- whe- EOS
if- if you had the choice now of living in- living in **anon** where
you used to live or in Manchester, or- or EOS erm, EOS you know, where
you live now EOS I think that is a really difficult question, because
I have a very big history down in **anon**, and there are things that
I miss down there, erm, it’s a tourist city it’s- it’s got money EOS
yeah EOS erm, I- I- I EOS you haven’t got Lostock have you EOS well
no, it’s- no you’ve- you- y- you- your main- your main employment
there is the University, that- one of the top ten Universities, and
there’s the international students bringing in money EOS right EOS
into a city, it’s a heritage city with a Roman archit- ar-
architecture EOS and there is a lotta tourists in- in **anon** though,
isn’t there EOS it- it- it- some money is constantly be- being brought
in EOS yeah EOS erm, developments are kept to a minimum, you know,
everything has to be rubber stamped with the council of listed
buildings and that, erm a v- a very bohemian city, erm, very small and
compact, I mean, you know, you haven’t got the EOS infrastructure like
Manchester or the- the vastness of choice, erm, but I would say you
also don’t get a lot of your social problems that you possibly would
in, you know, in- in a large- a large city EOS yeah EOS and perhaps
some run down areas, erm, around Manchester EOS mm EOS which you just
wouldn’t get in a place like **anon** EOS yeah, I suppose the thing
with **anon** is, I mean, because, I suppose, like holidays up there
we used to go to **anon** and stay on a farm and- and, you know, our
childhood was, I suppose our summer holidays, our childhood was- was
up there and I have very good memories of- of being at **anon** as
opposed to, you know, going into **anon** I mean I- I enjoyed it as a-
as a city, but I think EOS well would you’ve ever lived in **anon**?
If- EOS I suppose if- if- if I had the choice- if- if I’d have got
employment up there, it would’ve been a place that- that I would’ve
liked to have lived EOS but I always- I always actually g- going back,
when you lived there, I always thought that I knew **anon** better
than I knew Manchester, because I never re- I never really went into
Manchester in- I suppose in me early twenties I- I didn’t go- we
didn’t go night- clubbing or into the bars in Manchester, and I didn’t
work in Manchester so, I mean, it wasn’t a place that I actually went
a lot, whereas **anon**, because you know, we used to go down I
suppose with **anon** and **anon**, **anon**, and then you lived down
there and, we’d played, you know, like we played golf that time in
**anon** and we’d been to the theatre in **anon** and we- we been erm,
y- you know, t- to various places, I just thought that I knew **anon**
better than I knew Manchester, but I would- I would’ve lived there, I
don’t know what erm, whether I would’ve enjoyed it, I suppose it’s
difficult, I don’t know whether I’d’ve enjoyed it as much as I’ve- I
enjoyed the time I spent here, it’s diff- very difficult, to- to say,
but I mean I would’ve EOS I would’ve been happy staying there and I
did- I did enjoy the times that, that I went down when you were living
there, you know, I mean we sort of- EOS oh yeah, I- I enjoyed all
those moments as- as holidays down there EOS yeah EOS as a family,
erm, with their being countryside and a very different kinda- kind of
vibe to it EOS yeah, I was- I was saying the other day actually, do
you remem- do you remember cos you were saying about camping I was- I
was saying about erm, do you remember when- when we- when, erm,
**anon** had that caravan on the front lawn EOS oh yeah EOS and we s-
and we stayed in it that thunderstorm, and he let those fireworks off
outside EOS yeah EOS do you remember that, oh that was- I mean, I
don’t know how old we must’ve been then, must’ve been about bloody
nine or ten or something I think, and they had those- those bloody
aeroplane fireworks, do you have a- EOS I remember- EOS do y- do y- do
you remember those firew- the- the aeroplane ones that- that- that you
turned- set them off and th- and they just used to go ‘whoosh’ into
the air, and they’d go anywhere EOS yeah, I remember those EOS he was
setting them off outside our caravan and we were crapping it do you
not- cos- cos we didn’t know what it was cos we were so young, well
yeah EOS I was a so I perhaps didn’t know what it was or something,
but, EOS yeah but EOS and erm, w- and what’s erm- what’s that ch- I
think they- what was- **anon** as well, wasn’t there, when we used to
go out with EOS oh, **anon** and **anon** EOS yeah EOS yeah, but they
were good people, you know, they weren’t erm, they were nice people to
be around EOS yeah EOS but I mean I can’t- you know, f- for me to
have- I would- I would live in **anon** again, no problem, erm, but
the reason I can’t is because I’m now priced out of a market, but, you
know what, you have a choice, you can either live live in perhaps a
very nice area, EOS yeah EOS and not get too much out of a job or
something else and you have to weigh up your job, and your friends,
and where your family is, of a- of a bigger picture of maybe what life
is gonna EOS mm EOS gonna give you or what you’re gonna get out of it
EOS yeah EOS erm, and there are things that I- I- I miss a lot about
**anon** but there are things that I’ve gained by moving away from it
EOS yeah EOS erm, and as a city, I probably would not EOS wish to live
in Birmingham, I w- wouldn’t really wish to live in Liverpool EOS no
EOS erm, or possibly, you know, Edinburgh or whatever, erm, and I
think London is too big EOS mm EOS I mean it’s too expensive, but it’s
too big EOS yeah EOS whereas a place like Manchester is EOS it’s got a
lot of things going on EOS it’s got a lot of things going for it EOS
yeah, yeah, we had a good time in- me and **anon** went erm, went to
Leeds- well we went to that **anon**, **anon** or whatever you call it
EOS never heard of it EOS it’s- it’s up near, I dunno, it’s just on
the outskirts of Leeds, but it’s- I think it’s erm, Leeds’ only five
star hotel EOS oh EOS and we went and it was- cos it was our wedding
anniversary, which you forgot by the way, never mind EOS I did forget,
yeah EOS yeah, never mind EOS I never remember your annivers- EOS next
year, next year EOS there’s erm- oh I’ll tell you another thing, I
don’t know if you remembered, it was **anon** birthday today EOS oh
yeah, so it was- no it wasn’t, it’s tomorrow EOS oh is it tomorrow?
EOS yeah EOS oh good, me card’ll get there on time, EOS cos I sent a
card, did you send one, EOS oh well I thought, no EOS don’t think you
did EOS erm, no, but I did speak to **anon** and she did say it was
Thursday EOS oh did she EOS I was trying to get her- to buy- EOS get a
drum kit or something for **anon** or something EOS I’ll change the
calendar cos I had it for today, but that’s only cos Dad told me, he
says ‘I’ve sent a card’ s- he said- he said, ‘I’ve sent a card to
**anon**’ EOS well, good for him EOS no but he said that, no but he
said- he says, ‘I’ve sent a card to **anon** from everybody in
Manchester’ I thought, ‘thanks for telling me, A, you’ve sent a card,
and B you’ve-’ I mean EOS he was gonna do that for **anon** as well
EOS yeah but he could’ve said there was- that- that it was his
birthday EOS I said it was a very- I said I was a very good idea, and
carry on Dad EOS what, ‘from everybody in Manchester’ I thought he
should’ve just told me, I’d’ve sent me own card, I don’t wanna be part
of ‘everybody in Manchester’, anyway, I was saying about erm, the
hotel we stayed in EOS yeah EOS this five star hotel, I mean we’d
booked in, erm, for like a massage and- and us- use of the pool and
everything, and erm, but I think it was about sixty quid for each, for
the- for like- EOS what for the- for the night EOS for one night, but
you got erm, like I say, you got a spa treatment, you got a massage in
there, we got dinner, which was thirty quid a head anyway so EOS gosh,
that’s not bad EOS which was in there but erm, they t- they t- w- we
had a look on it, EOS the cheapest bottle of wine on their menu, was
thirty five quid EOS that’s terrible Noel **anon** EOS and they had
champ- they had champagne on the menu, three grand EOS did you buy it?
EOS yeah we- well EOS not the champagne but the EOS no, well we
actually- well we wanted a bottle of wine so we- so we thought well,
the cheapest EOS money to burn EOS is thirty five quid, erm, so- so we
had to have something, so I thought we’ll have that one, but erm, we
actually took a bottle of champagne with us, EOS so we drunk that in
the room before we- before we erm, before we went, so, well, before we
went down for dinner so that was- that was quite good, so we had a
good evening there, but erm, and then on the way back, I don’t know if
you, we went that’s- we went to Todmorden market, Todmorden and erm,
Howarth, Howarth is, erm, where Emily Bronte EOS oh aye EOS erm, oh
and the Bronte sisters EOS what’s that like? EOS it was alright, it’s
a bit tacky but, erm, there’s- there’s like a main, I suppose, their
main street which is just like up a hill, it’s- it’s a bit erm, like a
cobbled street, going up a EOS it’s diffi- it’s difficult to describe
what it’s like, like one of these Devon holiday villages, you know,
where the- the houses on both sides but like EOS the Hovis advert EOS
t- tacky shops I- I would call it selling- selling EOS garbage EOS
yeah, mugs, you know like w- How- Howarth mug and- and then these- and
erm, like, bric-a-brac and this, ooh, int- in fact there was one good
shop, I m- you’d’ve loved it, it was like, erm, s- selling memorabilia
and stuff like, you know EOS oh right, yeah EOS but they had- they had
erm, like some old, like old games, and they had like, Thunderbirds
annuals, and they had Doctor Who annuals and there was, erm, they’ve
got some, erm, like si- oh they had loads of like vinyl, and I had to
I was going through the y- you know, like sections EOS did you buy
anything? EOS no EOS oh, thanks EOS c- no but- EOS you should’ve got
that Thunderbirds book EOS nah, well it’s- too tight you see stuff in
there but I mean yeah but, I had a look, but it was all books, and it-
but it- I mean it was- it was a n- that- that was about the only sorta
shop I liked in- all the other ones are, you know, lots- lotsa cafes
trying to EOS sorta like out do each other with- f- for what they’re
selling for lunch and for their dinners and teas and coffees and- and
whatever else, but erm, I could- it was- we didn’t stay too long
there, coup- couple of hours is long enough but we just had a- a
wander up the high street and- and there’s like erm, I suppose a not a
woollen museum, but you know these places that sell tweed jackets and
local brew and things like that, so we- we nipped in there and and
just had a look around and got summet from- went the tourist
information centre, got a map, went round the churchyard where the
Bronte sisters were- were buried and EOS at least you’ve done some
cultural stuff EOS sort, cultural- yeah EOS yeah, that’s- that’s about
my limit, in fact we walked into the park and the- and there’s a map
of the park that goes, ‘you are here’, and we looked at the map and we
went, ‘I can’t be’ EOS no, can’t be arsed EOS ‘walking down here,
shall we go’ EOS yeah, so we, so we sort of, we sort of left there,
and then we went to Todmorden but they had erm, they had that like a
some stalls on there selling EOS all lo- well not local stuff, but
like olives and- and sun dried tomatoes and bloody, pickled garlic,
and all that sort of salady stuff and then there was a- another store
selling, bloody home made pies and, a bit- bit better than Urmston
market, you know, if you’ve wanna buy a plug at Urmston EOS yeah EOS
that’s about- that’s about- EOS yeah, or some- EOS bout your limit
really isn’t it EOS some pyjamas EOS yeah, yeah, buy- buy summet from
Marks and Spencers, yeah you’ll be alright, so erm- EOS what was your
friendship group like as a- as a child then? EOS my friends at school,
at school, I suppose- I suppose **anon** shouldn’t hear this but- EOS
well you were friends with **anon** weren’t you? EOS eh EOS you-
weren’t you friends with **anon**? EOS yeah, I was gonna say, I me- I-
it- I suppose I suppose I’d’ve been seventeen, eighteen may- maybe a
bit younger than that- than that and there was **anon** EOS mm EOS and
there was **anon** as- EOS yeah EOS as it was and erm, EOS I don’t
know his- whether he still lives up there, there’s **anon** do you
remember **anon** EOS I’ve not heard that name EOS you wouldn’t know-
no, **anon**, there was John Ward **anon** EOS yeah, I’ve heard that
name EOS right- it- I don’t- I’ll tell you- I’ll tell you a- it- I’ll
tell you a story about **anon**, he’s do you kn- do you remember
somebody called **anon** EOS yeah EOS cause he- apparently he’s not
very- he’s in- he was in hospital not long back with some alcoholic
problems EOS really EOS which is a bit of a shame cos he was nice
**anon**, EOS mm EOS but, I think erm, I- I don’t know he- I think he
sort of ended up living on his own, whether he’s in a flat or
something I don’t know whether he ever got married or was divorced or
something but I- he’s- he ended up coming in **anon** a lot EOS oh
right, yeah EOS so erm, but anyway I heard from, well, it was **anon**
brother, **anon** that- that send us- send us a text saying that
**anon** was in hospital with some EOS oh dear EOS it’s a shame really
cos I mean he can only be what- how old will he be, forty-nine, fifty
EOS mm EOS you know, I mean it’s- it’s no age at all, although I know
quite a few- well I know three or four people that have died through
alcoholic, bloody EOS mmhmm EOS problems, but yeah my childhood was, I
mean I suppose that that was spent down, EOS like you say, **anon**
EOS and erm, with **anon** and, erm, there was **anon**- **anon**-
**anon**, **anon**, erm, who was the lad who used to live opposite? I
can’t remember- I can’t remember who he is now, I’ll come to him in a
minute EOS who? EOS **anon** EOS **anon** EOS that was- that was one,
**anon**, and we just used to, I suppose there’s nothing really to do
EOS mm EOS erm, we went to the, erm, **anon** youth club a few times
erm, but again you see, the trouble with that- that- that, again,
there’s- there’s- there’s quite a few rough EOS yeah EOS people for
in- went in there from like I suppose it not the coun- oh I mean, you
know, if you say ‘council estate’ it sounds really snobby EOS yeah EOS
but I mean it’s- EOS yeah EOS it’s- it- it- you know, there’s people
like that, so I mean it wasn’t actually it was alright but I mean if
any of them went you sort of felt a bit intimidated by it- by various
things but, and then at- at school I mean, I suppose, some of me
friends- I didn’t really have that many- I didn’t really have many-
lots of friends, EOS I mean there was **anon**, but again he- he used
to live near us, **anon**, who used to live near us, EOS you used to
have more friends than me though EOS yeah, but I suppose some of that
was, erm- EOS you were more outgoing I think EOS yeah but I mean, I
used to play football for- when I first started at- so that’s a team
of people isn’t it EOS suppose so EOS so yeah, you got- you got eleven
to start with EOS yeah EOS and I- I- I suppose erm, I suppose maybe I
did, maybe I did go out a bit more in the evening, but I mean it
wasn’t- I suppose it was more hanging round the street, then- then-
then doing anything you know, it wasn’t, like o- you know, other than
Saturdays playing football ‘til I packed that in EOS cause I used to
smoke in the bike sheds and that was- that was the other social
calendar, wasn’t it, yeah EOS was yeah, well it was for you EOS who’d
you meet round- round the bushes, having a fag EOS or the top of the
road Noel **anon** EOS yeah so erm, so that was my social- social
events EOS I think most of mine was based around the band, you know, a
school band EOS yeah EOS I mean I- I had two or three quite close
friends I think, erm, **anon** was quite a EOS close friend and
probably erm, **anon** or something, the artist, who I quite liked-
EOS **anon**, where did he live? Can you remember where he lived? EOS
I can’t remember and I think some of the- some of the people from
primary school carried over into secondary school so EOS mm EOS there
was a kind of known following, you know, when- once you kind of got to
EOS yeah EOS secondary school erm, and people either got along or fell
out but I suppose I just joined bands at that point, school bands and
local bands, and they became friends and they became people that you
then EOS yeah EOS socialised a bit more with as you got a little bit
older EOS cos you played a couple of- I mean didn’t you play the civic
centre with your band and hats? EOS I think so, and I played somewhere
in Urmston, **anon** EOS where was that? Did you play there? EOS I did
EOS I don’t remember that, I remember the- EOS I do EOS do you EOS yep
EOS go on why, why do you remember that? EOS why do I remember it?
Erm, I think because you- you were shouting so much that you couldn’t
speak afterwards EOS and you’re just hoar- you’re voice was so hoarse
EOS what, cheering you on? EOS yeah, and I can’t think what garbage we
played but we must’ve played a lot of EOS yeah but I used to, you see,
that- EOS loud garbage EOS you see that- that- you see that was it you
see, I was- I was very proud, and I’ve said this to you before, I was
very proud of you being in a band, and- EOS I know you was EOS and the
fact that y- y- you know, you play- EOS but I was actually very proud
of you playing football, cos I could never do that EOS ah, I mean
that’s- that’s- I suppose that’s brothers for you isn’t it, one’s good
at one thing, one’s good at the other, but I mean I suppose, deep down
I- I don’t know, I just used to like going to watch you play and I-,
you know, telling people say, ‘oh, me, you know, you know, me
brother’s in a band, come and watch’ cos I mean, I remem- remember
seeing you, like I say, at the **anon**, and- and **anon** and even
when you were in your band in **anon** tha- that was erm I have still
got your CD up there, EOS oh right, that’s good that EOS aye, we’ll
show **anon** the pictures after EOS so we’ll erm, so I remember that,
so who else- I- who was- was it **anon** that was in your band EOS
there was **anon** and, **anon** EOS don’t remember that one EOS erm,
erm EOS who was the guy who pl- who was the lead guitar at the front?
EOS can’t remember EOS can you remember his name, that m- was that
**anon**? I can’t remember his name EOS I can only ever remember about
two people anyway EOS yeah EOS bet they played scout huts and stuff
like that EOS whatever happened to your drums? What happened to your-
what happened to your dr- what happened to your drum skin? EOS oh
that, the drum skin, the painted drum skin? EOS yeah EOS it followed
me down to **anon** I took it to **anon** and I think I just had a big
clear out one day and it got in the skip EOS ahh EOS I really wish I
hadn’t skipped stuff like that EOS I bet, yeah, yeah EOS but it- you
know, I think things were alright, you know, I- I was just more of a-
a bit more of a recluse and a loner I think EOS yeah EOS I’d quite
enjoyed staying in and playing records and- and stuff and, just having
two or three quite close friends and the music EOS yeah EOS I don’t- I
just don’t think I was particularly outgoing to kind of go crazy, you
know, EOS and I, like I say, I mean I didn’t have- I didn’t have
loadsa friends but they were- they were just sort of EOS I think- I
think in later days I think **anon** I mean I spent a lot of time
with- with **anon** if you remember, and then he moved up to bloody
Hebden Br- not Heb- somewhere up there, Hebden Bridge or something he
met- he met **anon** who was about twenty years older than him EOS oh
that’s it, yeah EOS with a- with two kids, which erm, when you’re
twenty I suppose that was appealing for him EOS yeah EOS you know,
which is- but erm, he erm, I dunno, we lost touch then, and I’ve- I’ve
not- I’ve seen his brother a few times, he lives in- EOS yeah, yeah,
I’ve seen him, **anon** EOS no, his younger brother, erm, **anon** EOS
oh I think I missed **anon** I can remember **anon** EOS well **anon**
was your age EOS yeah EOS **anon** was the year younger than me, and
then there was **anon** who was a different- who had a different Fa-
in fact I think they were all different Father’s, I don’t know, but,
he had a- he had drugs prob- he’s another one that had drugs problems
so erm, that was- that was that I suppose, erm, did you have a
favourite teacher at school? Going on about school no EOS I- well, y-
well, I suppose- I suppose I did in a- in a- in a strange w- I suppose
I had a favourite teacher EOS and I had erm, a probably not so
favourite teacher, my favourite teacher- I did have a favourite
teacher, erm, because he was very caring EOS who was that? EOS I think
it was **anon** EOS oh, I don’t remember him EOS he was a Maths
teacher but he just- it sounds very silly- silly or stupid at that
age, but he just came across as very caring EOS yeah EOS he didn’t
come across as erm, a kind of teacher in a way EOS so it w- eh, go on
EOS so I think- so I think I kind of liked him for- for that reason
EOS yeah EOS not particularly for the subjects he taught but just
because he seemed a caring bloke EOS I was gonna say, cos quite a few
of the teachers at school were quite, I think, Victorian, cos they
were older weren’t they, it was- EOS oh they were, I mean that Russian
teacher was just, you know, a sadist wasn’t he EOS yeah EOS banging on
desks and throwing chalk at people and EOS yeah, and he- EOS pulling
your hair and being really quite obnoxious and nasty EOS yeah, and
then- and then there was- EOS it- it’s no wonder somebody took a
either a knife to him one of them, or EOS you know, EOS good school
EOS a fist or something EOS someone probably it- yeah EOS because-
because they weren’t- they- they were EOS he was quite- I mean this is
it- cos I mean, when **anon** says about her school and they used to
call them by, you know like, **anon** or **anon** or **anon**
something, I mean ours was just, surname- it was just your surname
they used to EOS mm EOS but they- they- they- I don’t know, they- it
was very, I think disciplined was- was the word, I mean it was a boys’
grammar school, I suppose, it wasn’t mixed or anything but it was- it
was just very Victorian in its- in its outlook at school and, you
know- EOS but it wasn’t over fun either was it, EOS no, it wasn’t, no
EOS I mean it was I suppose you were there kind of to study and you
towed the line EOS yeah EOS and it was kind of Victorian but, I
suppose the teachers who were there perhaps had grown up in a slightly
different era even to what we- we had done EOS well that’s it I mean-
EOS and I suppose it, you know, **anon** and **anon** now have a very
different education EOS oh yeah, I mean the- EOS cause it’s a lot more
open and- EOS I think- I think like you say, I think the schools tend
to be a bit more- I think they treat you more as people than they-
than they ever did when- when- when we were at grammar EOS you know, I
mean, like you say, you were saying about your favourite teacher, I
think my favourite teacher was a PE teacher, cos I didn’t, you know,
it was like PE EOS yeah EOS wa- wa- wasn’t sort of like ball and ch-
it’s not- wasn’t work, if you know what I mean, it was EOS was that
the little short arse guy EOS there was only- there was only- they had
a he gave me EOS it’s true EOS I remember he gave me some lines once
EOS he had glasses didn’t he EOS I remember he give me some lines
once, and I did them, I did them with that self-carbonating paper, do
you remember, Mum had some self- carbonating paper that you just- EOS
what was that? EOS well you just wrote on it and it would carbonate
on- onto the next sheet- EOS oh they must’ve known Noel **anon** EOS
oh he did yeah, cos he caught me and it wasn’t- EOS wasn’t- wasn’t
hard t- to notice that one but erm, we did that and then, erm, I can’t
remember what I had to write now, but I remember- I remember him but I
just- I just quite enjoyed, like, PE, cos I suppose that was the
football bit, and I just couldn’t cover the- cover the proper subjects
couldn’t do- couldn’t do them at all so when are we- just erm EOS I’ll
have to come round to yours again with me- with me guitar and me amp,
like we said, we’ll try and do a bit a- are you working- what you
working next week, I know what you’re saying about EOS I can’t
remember what I’m working- EOS you don’t- EOS I’m working next week
EOS no, I’ll just- EOS it’s wri- it’s written at home but EOS give us
erm- EOS just come over with your amp and erm, we’ll have a jam around
or something EOS if you give us a shout about that we’ll- we’ll try
and have a- we’ll try and have a- have a look at that, have you been
busy at work or not too bad EOS not for the last two days I’ve not
been there EOS oh, you’ve not been in have you EOS erm, but yeah, it
has been busy, we’re moving buildings EOS right, when d- when d- they
expect that to be- EOS in four weeks EOS is that when you’re moving?
EOS it’s seventeenth September EOS oh right a- EOS so that’s gonna be
a bit of a nightmare EOS yeah, are they closing the other one
completely? EOS well, it’s gonna be rented out to somebody else, so we
won’t have any kind of dealings to do there, so it’s gonna be EOS yeah
EOS very much a different job and EOS yeah EOS different vibe and erm
different building so it’s gonna be really weird I think EOS oh right
EOS you’re away soon aren’t you? EOS yeah, we go away on the erm, oh,
is it ninth of September EOS where to? EOS we’re going to erm,
Portugal and don’t ask me the- the somebody asked me- somebody today
asked me the- asked me the name of the resort, and it’s summet like,
‘Cos’ or summet- summet like that, I can’t remember EOS who’s going,
is it just you and **anon**? EOS just me and **anon** yeah, cos
**anon** and **anon** have- well, **anon** been to Corfu with- with
**anon** and EOS mmhmm EOS **anon** Dad, and then **anon** been away
with **anon** and then they’re b- going to V EOS V EOS this weekend
EOS yeah EOS so, I mean there’s just no- I mean th- we- we couldn’t’ve
had a summer holiday this year with them anyway because of all the
different things that were going on, so we just didn’t have time to do
it that way so I mean, me and **anon** said ‘well, we’ll try and book
a week when- when they’re back at- at Uni or- or back at school’ EOS
I’ve never been there EOS well we haven’t, that’s one of the reasons
why I picked Portugal, or- because there’s that and- and Greece, I
wouldn’t of minded going to Greece cos I mean **anon** and **anon**
have been EOS mm EOS and you’ve been and that was another one, we said
that or Portugal EOS so, it was just a- a matter of, ‘well, where do
you wanna go’ so we- we sort of just went on the internet, and erm,
look- looked up some apartments, found an apartment and then **anon**-
we booked some flights, it’s not too hard, it’s about- EOS oh wow EOS
think it’s about six hundred- EOS it’s about six hundred quid EOS what
for the- just for the two of you for that EOS think so yeah but- EOS
that’s not- that’s not bad, three hundred quid for EOS yeah, but I
think it’s cos you go out of school holidays EOS yeah EOS then it’s-
you know, it- it- it works out that little bit cheaper but we’re not
gonna- w- we thought about hiring a car, for n- you know, to drive up,
but I- I don’t know, cos **anon** had a look and even that’s summet
like two and half hundred quid or three hundred quid for the- for the
week, and you think, ‘well’ EOS right EOS you know, if you got a
transfer for- for seventy quid that gives you two hundred and fifty
quid t- EOS yeah EOS to maybe get some taxis or something and EOS mm
EOS yeah EOS and the fact that we’re only going for a week, well I
mean you’d- you’d spend the first three or four days looking round
the- EOS you might spend half your time just in the car EOS there’ll
be trips won’t there, going around? EOS oh, the- we- well yeah because
I mean they’re always have trip to the nearest EOS yeah EOS you know,
erm, I d- I dunno, they either go to an aqua park or they go to EOS
yeah, other cities and stuff EOS you know, some- s- some building or-
or like you say, the next- the next town- town along the- the beach
EOS yeah EOS so there’s always that so we- we- we decided that we’ll
probably just get a transfer to the- to the resort and then just see
how it goes, but, **anon** and **anon**, you know **anon** and
**anon** who stayed in Barcelona? EOS yeah EOS they we- they- they’ve
been to this resort, well, about six years on the trot or something,
so EOS oh well, it seems pretty good if they’ve- EOS so we’ve sort of
like took a recommendation EOS got a recomm- recommendation from it
EOS yeah, so we’re gonna do- we’re gonna do that but- EOS that is so
unfair EOS but this is our- this’ll be our- our first holiday without
either **anon** or **anon** EOS oh EOS just me and **anon**, so that
should be- that should be- that should be interesting shouldn’t it?
EOS we’ll get- we’ll get bored after three days EOS just take plenty
of books EOS be like that, oh yeah, bought some books, we went to
charity shop and bought some books, when we were- when we were away at
this- this weekend, oh I tell you what else we- we- we bought, have
you ever done that- that race night? EOS yeah, we did- we did one last
Friday EOS those- you did- you did- well it’s- it was funny because it
was **anon** that, erm, that mentioned it, and we went to this charity
shop while we were out and they’d got a brand new EOS mm EOS box of-
of this race night for two pound ninety nine, so I thought, oh for
that, I th- EOS yeah EOS what is it? EOS well it’s- it’s where you’ve
got erm, they have erm, like a DVD of horse races EOS oh, okay EOS th-
they have like ten or twelve or, I dunno, how many horse races on EOS
and they give you a- all the- all the little slips, and y- you bet on
who you think’s gonna win EOS oh okay EOS so they’ve- they’ve got like
at the first race might be, I dunno, the, you know, the Dean Morris
handicap or something and it’ll have all the horses on it, and it’ll
say favourites this two, or whatever, and then you just- you just bet
on it, and if yours wins or comes second or something, y- you win the
money EOS it’s like monopoly money as well with it EOS oh, okay EOS
it’s good EOS oh yeah, that, yeah, yeah, they- they put like erm, I
mean s- some places have used it for- for like fundraising EOS yeah
EOS haven’t they, you know, like, we’ve been to one at the scouts EOS
where they- where they do it and- and you know, you bet real money on
it, put a quid on- on a race, and they use it for fundraising, there’s
quite a few people do it for that, but it’s just something
interesting, I mean you can have a- a few people over, few beers and
some snacks, and, I mean that’s what- that’s what you did wasn’t it?
EOS yeah, yeah, it was good EOS mm EOS and erm, you know, have a few
snacks and just- just have a- have an evening of it, but erm, who- who
won the most money when you did it? EOS we didn’t do it in the end but
I did alright, erm, one of mine was something like six to one, eight
to one, and I put three hundred on so I got like quite a bit back so
EOS wow EOS three hundred, yeah, can you imagine that in your own
money EOS yeah, I know EOS but you’ve got a thousand p- I- I- we- we
opened the box and we got like a thousand pound note or something, EOS
yeah EOS but erm, I- I just think it’d be quite erm, quite fun to do
that would EOS quite good EOS we had erm, I remember years ago we had
erm, I had a little games night here for different- just for diff- I-
I mean, this is for adults and we had like erm, wiggly worms EOS have
you seen- as- as one of the games we did, and there was- there was a
few like, really daft silly games but I mean Time EOS we- we sorta
split people into teams EOS mm EOS or we did girls and boys, I can’t
remember now but, erm, and we had the- all these like little daft-
daft g- EOS I mean it was actually quite good fun because I mean, me
Dad loves like playing daft games as well EOS yeah EOS same as you
like going to- EOS have you even played that connect four? EOS oh, I
love connect four EOS do you? EOS yeah, well I’m gonna- EOS I used to
love that, I wanted a little travel version of it, they had it in
Sainsbury’s EOS yeah, you have to just- EOS it’s better than a
computer EOS got one in there, that and tetris, I like tetris, cos
that’s a similar sorta game isn’t it EOS mm EOS for- you have that on
erm R game boy EOS game boy that was it, yeah, I remember now that’s
right, I’ve got one of them upstairs, got **anon** gameboy colour or
something EOS have you? EOS yeah, haven’t got tetris on it, but erm,
what was the other game you were saying about erm- EOS pacman EOS
yeah, oh, but they’re all on like you’re arcade games aren’t they,
have you- have you bou- have you got your Xbox sorted out yet? EOS erm
EOS or did you buy a game for that? EOS I have bought a game but which
one I bought EOS I bought an arcade classic game, which had a few
pacmans and space invader type things on there EOS yeah EOS retro
games EOS do you play it? do you play it? EOS I’ve just made that
clear Noel **anon** EOS erm, and then I bought a zombie game, where
you’re in this shopping mall and you can just blast the hell out of a
load of zombies EOS and then there was a racing game which I thought
**anon** would probably get off on called ‘split second’ but, I’m
waiting for that to come down to twenty quid rather than forty cos EOS
I’m not paying that EOS is that a new one then is it? EOS yeah EOS oh
right EOS but I’m not- I’m not paying forty pound for a game EOS no,
it’s ridiculous that isn’t it, have you been in Game in Manchester
then? Ask for a second hand one EOS I’ve been in- I’ve been in it- in
it but, erm, again their prices aren’t that low on some of the new
releases so EOS oh right, oh we’d- EOS at some point EOS we got erm,
you got- you got erm, that erm, guitar for that erm, guitar hero from
there didn’t you, did you get- EOS yeah, I think I did, yeah EOS yeah,
a few years back EOS yeah EOS and erm, and a game I think it was, a
second hand one EOS yeah, that was for **anon** wasn’t it EOS that’s-
that’s right yeah, yeah EOS mm EOS that was it EOS yeah, s- saying
about erm, I forgot what I was gonna say then, I was gonna say
something about erm, about another game we played on our games night,
and I can’t- I can’t remember what it was, there was wiggly worms and
there was another one it’s- EOS hungry hippos EOS eh? EOS hungry
hippos EOS hungry hi- oh that’s- that’s a good game as well, hungry
hippos, but I’ve got- I’ve got ups- I’ve got erm, Kerplunk EOS mm,
that’s good EOS erm, you were saying about connect four, I haven’t got
that upstairs but erm, I can’t remember what we were playing the other
day, it wasn’t Ke- oh I tell you what, that’s one- another thing that
reminded me, Cluedo, it- there was a question in the quiz, in the pub,
he says, ‘where was- where was Cluedo set?’ have you any idea where
Cluedo was set? EOS no EOS and I t- I- EOS was it- it was set in a
house wasn’t it EOS oh it’s- oh it’s set in, yeah, it’s set in this
like stately home or something, but I text **anon** EOS did he know or
google it EOS ‘can y- can y- can you tell me where, erm, where Cluedo
was set’ cos it’s under the- we’ve got it under the cabinet in the- in
the hall and he- and he looked through and he put EOS ‘it’s- it’s a,
erm, Tudor manor’ or something, I went, ‘no, look, it’s like, set in a
Tudor manor’ EOS ‘it’s not the name of it’ yeah, it doesn’t say- I
don’t know how they- how anybody knows it, cos it doesn’t say anywhere
on the box EOS mm EOS or in the instructions, where it’s set, and it’s
Arlington Hall EOS mm EOS so just remember that for your quiz, summet-
EOS well if you turn it on to google what do you think it would say,
do you think it would- do you think it EOS what, Cluedo? EOS do you
think it would come up and say EOS well it might- EOS ‘this is where
Cluedo is set’ EOS it might do yeah, Wikipedia EOS yeah, it’ll be on
Wikipedia EOS be on- be on there won’t it EOS someone could’ve made
that up though if it doesn’t say EOS I- but this- this is what I
thought, I thought I wonder if somebody has just made- just made that
up, because it doesn’t say on the box EOS no EOS or whether it says on
the- on the later ones I mean I- I don’t erm, I don’t- I don’t know so
erm, I was gonna say as well yeah, about erm, different games you can
get a ‘Kiss’ monopoly, have you seen that? EOS I know you can get one
but I’ve never seen it EOS yeah, I saw it- I saw it on erm EOS where
was that? EOS might’ve been on kiss online or something EOS well, have
you bought it? EOS no EOS why not? EOS no I just thought cos it was
probably about two hundred dollars or something EOS have you got an
account with Kiss online? EOS no, have you? I bet you have EOS I wish
I had EOS I bet you have EOS I wish I had EOS ah EOS I haven’t got an
account with anybody, Amazon, that’s the only account I’ve got but EOS
I- I- talking of old th- old things Noel **anon** there was a DVD on
Amazon called ‘Kate and Allie’ which you would not remember, it was
from nineteen eighty four, and it’s- it was set in America, it’s
about- and it had Susan Saint James in it, she was the like, top
actress in America and like, both of them were divorced, and had two
children each, and they were all- they had to sort of house share, and
it ran for about five years, and it was my favourite programme
throughout the eighties, erm, and they’ve got a box set in- EOS and
what was it called? EOS ‘Kate and Allie’ EOS oh, I don’t know EOS and
there’s a box set, erm, and it’s finally was released in Europe erm,
in February this year EOS right EOS and it’s fifty quid EOS bloody
hell EOS for the whole of this- this- this series, but you have to
order it from America EOS oh right EOS and I’m so tempted to EOS but I
don’t know whether I find it funny, EOS yeah EOS you know after such a
long time, but I kinda think I would, or I kinda think, oh what the
hell I’m just gonna blow fifty quid and s- see what happens, you know
what I mean EOS you can see if it’s on youtube first EOS yeah I could
maybe do that EOS mm, and see if you like it EOS and- and- and see
that I’ll type- I’ll type that in EOS do they have full- do- do they
have full episodes on youtube, or is it just mainly- EOS sometimes,
sometimes it’s just snippets EOS yeah EOS but EOS I’ve never really
been on youtube that much EOS mm EOS it’s f- it’s funny you saying
about erm, not being as funny as it used to, we’ve erm, we got ‘Life
of Brian’ you know Monty Python EOS yeah, EOS I don’t know if you’ve
ever seen it EOS yeah, I have EOS but we- we- I think- I think I hype
stuff up too much EOS cause I’m going, ‘ah, it’s great, it’s great,
gotta watch this, **anon** it’s dead funny’ and but when you put it
on, then **anon** and **anon** are sat there like that EOS what was
that play then like, that Monty Python play that you went to see? EOS
oh that Spamalot, yeah that was EOS was that any good or was that just
rubbish? EOS well, that was- that was a mixed bag of- of like erm, I
don’t know if you’ve seen any Monty Python, but Monty Python- EOS just
the life of Brian EOS there was Monty Python and the Holy Grail, Life
of Brian, and erm, EOS Monty Python live at Drury Lane, I think
they’re- they’re- they’re like the main ones, and they’re- and it was
written by Eric Idle, I think Eric Idle wrote Spamalot, he was one of
Monty Python, so he’s put a lot the, sort of ‘in-jokes’ in this EOS mm
EOS and it’s- and it’s- it’s run a bit more like the Holy Grail EOS mm
EOS sort of storyline EOS right EOS of it but- but so I th- you’ve-
you’ve- you’ve got to know quite a few of the in j- you’ve- you-
you’ve- you’ve got to have watched the DV- the- the film I think, to
really enjoy it, although there’s- there’s certain things in it that
we thought **anon**, you know, he’d like that, and then when **anon**-
you know, would find that funny EOS yeah EOS and different things but
it was- it wasn’t rib tickling EOS no EOS it wasn’t like, belly laugh
out loud a minute, EOS no EOS all the way through it, but there was
some, there were some bits in it that you thought, that’s, you know,
that was quite funny, and it was good entertainment, but we went- we
went in erm, it was good entertainment for- for an afternoon, and we
went with **anon** and **anon** so I mean that was, it’s just nice,
and we had- we went in erm, Walkabout EOS before- do you know where-
do you know where- opposite EOS oh yeah, that’s w- yeah, **anon** and-
**anon** and, erm **anon** have been there haven’t they? It’s
Australian EOS have they, I’ve nev- I’ve ne- I’ve never been, EOS mm
EOS yeah, well that’s it you see EOS yeah EOS I’ve only heard of that
on rock radio EOS right, yeah, I’ve been in EOS cause they go on
about, sometimes, erm, they have like pre- pre concert parties there
and erm, so, we’ve never been in so- so **anon** says, ‘oh go on, have
a go in Walkabout’ and we went in there, and I’ve gotta admit, it’s a
bit of a shit hole isn’t it EOS well yeah, it was a bit EOS I mean,
the seats are r- have you ever been in? EOS only the one in Leeds EOS
oh, th- this, I mean it’s- is it- I don’t know exactly- is it like
just a cheap and cheerful place t- to drink EOS yeah, EOS and are- is
it- do they have rooms there or something, is there places you can
stay? EOS I dunno EOS I don’t know, but the s- you know, we sat on
these seats and you thought, they’ve been ripped, and the, you know,
I’m not saying the floor was sticky but, it wasn’t quite as bad as
that but EOS summet kicking off in the corner EOS y- you thought, no,
this is- this is not- have you been in- did you say you’d been in it?
EOS I’ve been in it just once yeah EOS that’s about enough EOS and it
was- I mean I suppose on a Saturday night it’s gonna be packed isn’t
it EOS yeah, but yeah, I suppose it- I suppose that by- but it’s funny
you said about Australian because I remember, on rock radio, they were
saying about free, I dunno, free beers or something or, you know, come
in fancy dress and you- you can have a bar tab or something like that,
I can’t- I can’t actually remember, but it was actually erm, I- I
don’t know, I didn’t quite- I didn’t, it wasn’t busy but I just
thought I wouldn’t, it’s not the sorta place I’d erm, HELLO There is a large amount of background noise throughout the recording
EOS There is no left channel between 15.05 - 26.42 and 27.41 - 43.50 .
EOS Right when you’re ready. EOS You start off Fearne **anon** then.
EOS Well I went to school in **anon** which is called **anon** school.
EOS mm, mm EOS You know I’ve been there for a long time. A very long-
I couldn’t remember how many years but I lived there for a long time
with me parents. EOS mm EOS Erm we moved away from **anon**- EOS Yeah
EOS and lived in **anon**. I used to live at the **anon**. Been there
a long time EOS mm EOS so I moved to up road now, which as you know I
live on my own, so it’s just that erm you know I get on with- EOS Were
you happy at school? EOS Yes I was. Yeah I was happy at school. EOS
were you, mm EOS Yeah, yeah. It’s just that when I went there,
**anon** in- in **anon** EOS mm EOS I had to wear you know like- go to
a- like a clinic thing. EOS mm EOS I had to wear this cardboard hat
over me head cos the sun, EOS yeah, mm EOS for a reason, cos of me
eyes, so EOS You’re right, yeah. Yes. EOS That’s why I had me eyes
tested. EOS mm EOS Some- I mean they sent you a reminder that your
eyes are due to be tested, you know. EOS mm, yeah, yeah EOS But they
always seem to be okay The- these are me reading glasses and the ones
I’ve got at home, they’re for the television. But as I say school
sports, but I never done that at all. Well I’ve done sports but not
done- I don’t think I’ve done music and drama cos I was fostered out
when I was- when I was a child. EOS Were you, yeah? EOS yeah, yeah
when me and my sister were very- w- we were forstered out cos me
mother was tookayvery ill, very poorly- EOS Yeah, yes EOS and, I did
enjoy sch- we did enjoy school EOS mm EOS you know. But erm when we
came out of fostering I can’t remember what happened then. It’s- It
was a long- a very long time ago EOS yeah, yeah, mm EOS and your
favourite teacher, well I just can’t remember about- favourite teacher
at all about that. But when I remember from your first day at school
we just enjoy- you get to know EOS mm EOS young people you know in- in
the school yard like. EOS And I do remember but erm that one in
**anon** I don’t- I don’t know if it’s still there or not cos I’ve not
been down to **anon** for ages. EOS And did you have what our school
had, an outside toilet? EOS I think we did. EOS But it was cold in the
winter EOS I think- I think we did. I think we did. I think we did.
EOS Yeah, mm, yeah. You wouldn’t forget if you did, no EOS No, no EOS
Now what- were- were your summers holidays like when you were young?
Well, when I was young I had no holidays been put back- erm I don’t
think I went to go away much. EOS No. EOS When I got a bit older. EOS
yeah EOS I have been to Scotland. You know I’ve been to Scotland- EOS
mm, you’ve been to Scot- yeah yeah. EOS Err I went out with somebody
like ages- I’m going back ages ago but EOS mm EOS erm no as I said to
you before I’m on- I’m on me own now. EOS So I just keep on going you
know. I like my walks and everything you know. EOS Yeah yeah, yeah EOS
You know I like coming here for my lunch EOS Yeah yeah, yeah, yeah EOS
I mean the staff are very good to you. EOS Were you happy at school?
EOS Yes I was very happy at school. Yeah, yeah. EOS I hate- I hated it
EOS Well you- you had to go- you had to go didn’t you to learn. EOS
Yeah yeah mm EOS You know and erm I did have a brother. Erm mind you
he’s not long with me. He passed- EOS Yes, that’s it- EOS He passed
away. I’ve got another brother- EOS You’ve got another brother, yeah.
EOS he lives in Oldham and he do- he do- he rings me once a fortnight
or I- I- or I ring him EOS Yeah, yeah, yeah. EOS and erm I had another
brother but we don’t get on at all. EOS No. EOS and erm what extra you
are. Schoo- sports, music- we’ve said that haven’t we. I like sports
you know I like sports. No problem at all with sports. You know you do
the sack race and egg-spoon race and all this kind of thing you know.
EOS It says here did you ever get you ever get into trouble at school?
EOS No I didn’t. EOS No you didn’t . EOS No I didn’t. EOS No, no EOS
Did you Edmund **anon**? EOS Pardon. EOS Did you? EOS Not really no.
See I- I- I started school at **anon**. EOS mm EOS Was only there a
year and me parents said it wasn’t suitable cos of me problem with me
speech. EOS Oh okay EOS They used to hit me over the head with a ruler
to get the words out and it made you wo- EOS Yeah. EOS And then I went
to **anon**. I don’t know if you’ve ever heard of **anon** EOS mm EOS
it’s a- I loved it there. There was two ladies that’s all who taught
you. I didn’t like school with having the problem with speech. EOS mm
EOS It was- you know- but erm I went and as soon as I- I was fourteen
I left. EOS Really? EOS Yeah. EOS Mm. EOS I just didn’t like it. EOS
mm EOS So did I get into trouble? No I don’t think I did. The only t-
I- yeah I got six of the best once. EOS Mm. EOS Why? EOS Well I used
to write d- I used to go to s- erm the school that **anon** and
there’s always a bully- EOS Mm. EOS Mm. EOS and I was riding me bike
back to school and he stopped me and he made me give him a lift on my
crossbar. And when I got to school- oh I got stopped- we got stopped
on the way there by a policeman. EOS mm EOS ‘Which school do you go
to?’ So I told him and the middle of the afternoon I was in the
headmaster’s office and I got six of the best. EOS mm EOS Caned for
doing that. And lookayat the world today. EOS Mm. EOS Mm. EOS Just
with having someone on- on your bike. On your crossbar. EOS Well I
left school- I think I left school when I was six- I think I was
sixteen when I left s- when I left school, I- EOS Mm. I- I liked me
childhood days yes because I was l- lucky that our house was only
about the- a couple of hundred yards off a farm. EOS mm EOS oh, that’s
nice EOS And I was always on there and I love animals. EOS Mm. EOS
Yeah. EOS And me favourite animal’s the cow. It’s so laid back and-
EOS Mm. EOS just like that the cow you know. So I spent a- a lot of
my- my time with animals on- on the farm you know. EOS Yeah, that’s
nice EOS I once- yeah I was still at school and there was a c- c-
couple of farms not- short distance. And the farmer asked me to go to
the other farm and erm excuse me. I was walking it and there’s some
ditches where all the water drains in- EOS Yeah. EOS and there was a
man on a bike acting suspicious. EOS mm EOS So I- I watched him and
then I went on and I caught a butterfly in me hand. EOS Oh EOS He
cycled up to me then and said ‘what have you got in your hand?’ I said
‘a butterfly’ He said erm, ‘let it go! You don’t know what it’s like
t- to be fastened up’. EOS mm, mm EOS So I did and erm I went to the
other farm and walking back I went to have a lookayin this ditch. And
I found erm clothes, prison clothes . It was an escaped prisoner. EOS
So I left them and I went to the police station in Urmston and they
said ‘have a lookayat will you at this bookayand see if you can find
him’. And I found him and they gave me five shillings. EOS Really? EOS
yeah EOS Oh five shillings oh. EOS S- so erm I can u- understand the
story now with the butterfly and you know EOS Yeah. EOS S- so that was
on- one of my school stories anyway and erm I suppose there’s a lot
isn’t there really. But it wasn’t bad. I enjoyed me school i- in a
way. EOS Yeah. EOS Mm. EOS And erm and I’m a great believer your
life’s mapped out EOS mm EOS because on the piece of land I live now I
lived in nineteen thirty. EOS Really? EOS But this is a modern house
now and there was an old house on there. EOS mm EOS And I didn’t know
when I bought this house exactly where I’d lived. EOS That’s funny.
EOS So I do believe y- your life in a way your pattern of life is led.
EOS Mm, mm EOS You know because I’m going to end up where I started
off you know . EOS mm EOS Mm. Have you got any more Fearne **anon**
then them that you’ve thought of? EOS Well there’s one here one at the
top. W- where are your parents from? Now that’s an question because
erm I got an old photograph at home. EOS Mm. EOS Very old photograph.
EOS Mm. EOS Erm when me mother was alive- EOS Yeah. EOS she lived w-
we moved away from **anon** up to- moved up to **anon**. She was alive
then- EOS Yeah. EOS but I didn’t knew me father at all. EOS No. EOS
No. So- so I don’t know about that one but erm I mean me uncles and
all that me aunties are you know passed away. So it’s- EOS yeah EOS
Yeah, yeah, yeah. EOS So- so it just that, erm, w- EOS Is your mother
from L- Lancashire or out of the county? EOS Erm sh- sh- she could-
she could be. I mean you know. EOS mm, you don’t really know. EOS We
don’t really know. You know you’re so young you sometimes you know.
EOS mm EOS Do you know what happened in those days? They would never
tell you anything. EOS Really? EOS Your parents. They kept s- secret.
EOS mm EOS I erm- when I was five I went to my Grandma’s funeral in
**anon**. EOS Yeah. EOS And you weren’t allowed to see anything so I-
I was taken for a walk in the village. It was a lovely village. There
was a stream and it was a beautiful village and I was only five. And
all me life I had this picture of this village and whenever I asked my
parents what it was called ‘what do you want to know for?’ And I
must’ve been about seventy and we had a motorhome then. EOS And I said
to my wife ‘come on. I’m going to find- EOS Yeah. EOS the name of this
village’. I knew where one of the ancestors lived and we went into
this erm village and they said ‘oh you’d better ask at the postoffice
he’ll know’. So we went in the postoffice, says ‘I can’t help you.
I’ve only been here two weeks’. EOS Oh EOS So he didn’t know any of
the villagers. So an- anyway in the end we did find a person of the
surname that we were looking for. So we went round to this house and
as we- and I said to me wife ‘get out and ask this lady walking down
the path if they know a **anon**’. So she got out and this lady says
‘come on in it’s me mother’. EOS Really? EOS mm, oh EOS Yeah. And she
told me the name of the village. So after about seventy years I went
back and it still looked the same to me. EOS Really? EOS But they had
secrets they wouldn’t tell you. EOS mm EOS mm EOS ‘W- what do you want
to know for?’ And erm- EOS Yeah, yeah, yeah EOS So I’m half Lancashire
and half Yorkshire. EOS Mm. EOS ooh EOS Mother’s from Yorkshire. Near
**anon**. And me dad’s from **anon** and he was a joiner. Erm me- m-
mother w- worked in service. EOS mm EOS What was called service in
those days. She more or less lived in the house and was responsible
for the house. EOS yeah EOS Looking after it. Cleaning it, meals,
everything you know EOS mm EOS and in those days it was called
service. And she worked in **anon** then. EOS Mm EOS Erm not much
about school is there at the moment? EOS No, no erm EOS it’s just that
I’m looking at this other one here, EOS mm EOS the local evening news
stories about thi- important people know about your- your town. EOS
Well as I said before in **anon** I meant to t- I meant to tell you
this but I got two sisters which I never seen. EOS No. EOS very long-
for a very long time. EOS mm EOS I’ve got their address and I gave it
to me brother to- EOS mm EOS you know to get in touch you know with us
but I don’t know if he’s done it yet. I don’t know. Sometimes- I
usually go down to see him but he meets me so, cos it’s a long way.
EOS Right. EOS Mm. EOS c- cos he’s moved into a bungalow now you see.
He’s not- he’s never been married you know, he’s- EOS Mm. EOS Well I’m
not asking how old you are Fearne **anon** but - EOS No. I’m not that
bothered about my age. EOS Were you at school in the war or- or af- or
after? EOS I’ll be- I was born in nineteen forty one so I’ll be- EOS
Oh you missed it. Well no you were born in the war. EOS born in the
war yeah. EOS mm, mm, mm EOS So I’ve got an old big photograph you
know erm at home somewhere but erm- EOS Yeah. EOS I remember I used to
have this old three wheeled bike. Very old three wheeled bike- EOS Mm
oh yeah. Yeah. EOS A very old one you know. In **anon**, very old. And
the people w- w- when we put our house up for sale EOS Yeah. EOS and a
nice couple b- bought it. You know nice coloured people bought it you
know EOS mm, mm EOS So that’s when we moved for my mother’s health you
know. EOS Yeah mm. EOS Mm. EOS So she couldn’t travel. She couldn’t go
out at all much. EOS Yeah. EOS No. EOS No, so EOS Well the war started
didn’t it in nineteen thirty nine. EOS Yeah, yeah so- EOS And I was at
**anon** school then- EOS Yeah. EOS Yeah. EOS which overlooked the
canal. EOS Oh. EOS Oh the boats that went along there they were
fabulous you know it’s- you don’t see them now. EOS No. EOS They’ve
all gone. EOS Mm. EOS Massive big boats with a- a- a tug a- at the
front to pull it. T- t- tug at the back to steady it back you know-
EOS Mm. EOS and the bridge used to swing EOS and that was good there
th- for a- w- watching that you know. EOS Mm. EOS So I- I was at
school when the war started and erm it was a queer time because all
the street signs were moved. All the lights were taken awa- no lights
were allowed to be on. EOS Mm. EOS All the cars had to have a light
with a slit in it only. EOS It was a- a weird place didn’t it. All the
names went didn’t they. EOS Mm. EOS They were taken away and- and
where I lived in **anon** there was a barrage balloon site on the
corner. And the barrage balloon was- it was f- f- filled with gas and
when the airraid came it used to go into the air to stop aircraft d-
diving down. EOS Oh, okay. EOS Because we lived a short distance from
**anon**- EOS Yeah, mm EOS which was erm industry in the war. EOS Mm.
EOS And erm- and when the wind was- if the barrage balloon went up and
it was windy the ba- the barrage balloon used to sway into our- our
back garden you know and erm yeah. EOS did it? EOS You just were
frightened to death you know and they erm and leading to **anon** was
big oil drums on the side of the road- EOS Right. EOS with a out. EOS
mm EOS And the Germans used to follow the ship c- canal from L-
Liverpool- EOS Mm. EOS when the- the moonlight was out you can be sure
there’s going to be a raid you know. EOS Mm. EOS And you used to f- f-
follow the moon No left channel EOS up the canal and if the wind was
blowing to Trafford Park they used to light these oil drums so a mass
of smoke went over the park and they couldn’t find it. EOS Oh. EOS Oh.
EOS Yeah. So erm- I think I’ve lived in the best time cos radio was
still new. T- television had been thought of but it had been put on
one side because of the war. EOS yeah EOS Buses were always on time.
EOS Weren’t they Fearne **anon**? EOS Oh yeah. EOS If you went out for
a bus- EOS It’d be there EOS it was there. EOS mm EOS And you can erm-
it was you know. Now what are the most important changes in- in a- in
your town? EOS don’t know EOS Mm. EOS Well it’s changed- we have no
cinemas left. EOS No. No we haven’t. There’s- that big one in Sale-
EOS Yeah. EOS that’s just standing there. I know- I used to go there
one time. EOS Yeah EOS But it’s just standing there doing nothing you
know. Sh- sh- it’s a shame really you know. EOS They’ve gone because
my youth I used to go to the cinema about twice a week. EOS Yeah. EOS
And when I got a little bit older, do you remember Urmston baths? EOS
Not the old one. EOS Not the old one. EOS I know the new one. **anon**
talks about- cos it used to be the **anon** didn’t it? EOS Yeah. EOS
Yeah. EOS Well the Urmston baths in the winter. They used to empty the
water out- EOS Mm. EOS put a wooden floor over it. And it was sprung
like a proper dance floor and they had dancing every Saturday and
Wednesday. EOS Really? EOS And they had a big bands. About a fifteen
piece band that came every week. EOS Ah. EOS Mm. EOS That was fun. EOS
Mm. EOS And you daren’t drink cos if you’d had a drink a girl wouldn’t
dance with you. EOS It was very strict in those days. EOS So yeah U-
Urmston’s v- very busy now. Whereas I can- one- one memory I’ve got in
the school days when the war started was me mother pushing the pram
with my sister in- EOS Mm . EOS down to Urmston a blackout c- c-
curtaining you know. Cos we had orders. We hadn’t got to sh- sh- show
any lights at all and- EOS Yeah. EOS you had to have your windows
blacked out so nobody could see and that is one of the memories I’ve
got. And then the bombs dropping round you. It was a bit of a hectic
time wasn’t it. EOS anxious time. EOS those- those days, yeah EOS You
never got a night in bed- EOS Mm. EOS Mm. EOS without you were i- in-
in a- a air raid sh- shelter. EOS Yeah that’s right they’d shelters
didn’t they. Yeah. EOS No. Ours- ours was in the house. EOS Really?
EOS There was an Anderson shelter- you’ve- have you heard of an
Anderson? EOS I’m not quite sure if I have heard of it. EOS It’s all
cast- and it’s all iron metal. EOS Right. EOS With four sides and a
metal top. So if the bomb- house fell on it it wouldn’t- you’d be safe
inside there you know. EOS Yeah. EOS Yeah. EOS We had a wired mesh all
around it like an- animals . EOS And that was called- and that was
inside ours. The Anderson shelter. EOS We had one outside our house.
EOS Did you? EOS In our old house. EOS yeah EOS It had like pebbles
over it so it looked like it was just part of the ground. EOS Yeah so
it looked like a part of the garden. Yeah. EOS Oh yeah. EOS I never-
we couldn’t get into it cos it was all blocked off inside. EOS Mm. EOS
Oh. EOS But at least I found . EOS Yeah, yeah. Yeah th- they were
scary days weren’t they in a way Fearne **anon**? EOS Mm it was yeah.
EOS You know cos you didn’t know what’s going to happen. EOS I mean I
was only v- I must’ve been very young- EOS Yeah. EOS to you know. It’s
erm- EOS mm EOS Well as I said I didn’t like school. EOS Did you move
house at all when you were young? What memories do you have of this?
EOS I moved house once. I moved from where I live now to **anon**
another part of **anon** where me p- parents stayed until they p-
passed away so- EOS Yes. EOS so they were there a long time. EOS Mm.
Mm. EOS I- I- I lived there ‘til I was twenty five. Cos there was a
lot going on in Urmston then. EOS Mm. EOS I went- with being
stammering I was very shy and reserved and I thought I’ve got to do
summat about this. So I went and had d- d- d- d- dancing lessons in
Urmston. EOS Really? EOS Yeah and I enjoyed it and I’ve got all my
medals for dancing . EOS mm EOS Yeah and that was a way of b- bringing
me out you know EOS Yeah. Mm. And then course you were always g- going
dancing and m- we had a milk bar in Urmston. EOS Did you- did you have
a milk bar at all **anon**? EOS If I could remember it’s- EOS They
only sold milkshakes. EOS Really? EOS Mm. S- sh- shop’s still there
now but they’ve run out of milk. It’s gone. EOS Yeah. I tell you what
I was thinking of last night. I knew what I wanted to do when I left
school and as soon as I was fourteen I was out. EOS Mm. EOS And I
wanted to be a lithographic printer. EOS Oh yeah. EOS I was always
interested in printing all- this was nineteen forty four. There was
one year left of the war. But it was ending and there were soldiers
were arriving home then. EOS mm EOS So they had to have their old jobs
back. EOS Right. EOS You c- I c- could not get a job EOS mm EOS to be
a lithographic printer. So- I’m talking a lot aren’t I. EOS No you ca-
no you carry on you carry on! EOS So there was an advert in the
newspaper. The evening news. EOS ‘Boy wanted to learn lithographic
printing’ Manchester. So I was there for eight o’clock and the job had
gone. EOS Right. EOS Oh. EOS Dear me. Anyway so they said ‘but we’ve
got a vacancy in the handwritten department’. Now don’t ask me what
that was. EOS So they- I went along with them upstairs and they showed
me. There was about nine men working there all doing handwritten
posters- EOS Oh. EOS which they did in those days. EOS Mm. EOS I mean
I can r- r- remember Urmston it was just full of posters on the walls.
Most of those were hand done. EOS mm EOS mm EOS All- o- others were
lithographic printed so I started there. And erm to cut a long story
short I did that the rest of my life for fifty years. EOS But when I
worked there got a pound a week. EOS A pound. EOS And I’ve written
this down because I’d forget it wouldn’t I EOS You came prepared . EOS
I had to go on the bus to Manchester six days a week. That cost me
fifty four d, old p- pence a week. I had to give me m- mother ninety p
oh no d, of the old money. EOS Mm. EOS I used to go to the pictures
twice a week for th- th- thirty d. Thirty pence. Thirty eight old
money and I was left with sixty six p- p- p- EOS for a week and that
was a pound. EOS Pound. EOS And I used to live on it EOS mm EOS mmhmm
EOS and I think now. I think that’s now why it’s made me appreciate-
EOS Yeah. EOS mm EOS the value of money. EOS Mm. EOS And erm if I can
jump a bit further I then left there and went to work for another firm
who did, you won’t have heard of these will you- EOS **anon** EOS No.
EOS You’ll have heard of them won’t you? EOS Oh yes, yeah, yeah. EOS
Yeah, yeah. EOS Yes. Mm. EOS Oh dear. EOS Well the **anon** were the
biggest circuit in England of cinemas. EOS Oh, okay. EOS And some
cinemas used to change three times a week. Monday Tuesday Wednesday,
Thursday Friday Saturday and a different one on a Sunday- EOS Right.
EOS so people went. EOS Yeah. EOS And there was about- I think there
was sixty of us worked there. And we used to do abou- I- I forget the
amount but it was in hundreds. The circuit was in hundreds of cinemas.
And we used to do them all by hand every week. One week’s holiday. A
forty eight hour week and that’s where I really learnt me job there
you know my trade. EOS mm, yeah. EOS They went bankrupt. EOS Oh no.
EOS And I got oth- other jobs you know and then I always wanted to
have me own business and I started my own business in nineteen sixty
six . I found this old property and I started in business on two weeks
holiday pay that I’d got from the firm. EOS Yeah. EOS Fifteen- thirty
pound it was for two weeks. EOS Uh huh. EOS Out of that I had to pay
sixteen pound to rent the shop. It was a big gamble wasn’t it. EOS Mm.
EOS Yeah. EOS But I was lucky that I got the c- custom you know. EOS
Yeah. EOS Struggled and erm- but people were good in those days c-
anyway I- I managed to get- make friends with a chappy who worked for
I think it was Esso petroleum. And he- he was responsible for ad-
advertising and he used to bring me the advertising to do you know big
wooden signs. EOS Yeah EOS And so I hadn’t erm money to buy the wood
even to do them on. But there was a wonderful sh- shop in **anon**
where th- you know they used to sell wood. EOS Mm. EOS And he said to
me ‘Edmund **anon** you take it. When you get paid you pay me’ and I
thought that was lovely that. EOS Yeah. EOS You know. And I worked on
my own for t- twenty five years and enjoyed it. Erm and I lookayback
on life it’s- it’s had its bad times I’ve married twice. EOS Yeah. EOS
First time okay, you can’t have it perfect can you. EOS Mm. EOS And
then me wife- I went out with me wife once when I was about eighteen
and the problem was she was a friend of the fam- or their- her parents
were a friend of my parents and whenever she came round I went out you
know. EOS mm EOS Mm. EOS So anyway we went out with each other once.
We didn’t like each other EOS dear me. EOS We went off an married
somebody else and fifteen years later I got divorced. D- didn’t know
where **anon** was. Hadn’t the slightest where she was. Until a friend
of mine who was an insurance agent he said ‘I’ve just knocked at a
house in Stretford and this **anon**- **anon** came to the door.’ I
said ‘did she?’ He said ‘yeah’ he said erm ‘she’s got divorced and
she’s living in **anon** and she’s a bit of alright yeah Edmund
**anon**’ Left channel resumes EOS oh dear EOS So Edmund **anon**
wrote to her mother EOS And that’s how that started all over again.
EOS Really? Oh. EOS So you can see why I believe your life’s mapped
out. EOS Yeah. EOS Cos how did I meet her again in **anon** when I was
here? EOS Yeah. EOS You know. EOS And both divorced and things. EOS
Yeah this is it you know. And that- that was fantastic that. I’ve got
a boy off me first marriage and off the second I’ve got t- two girls
you know. EOS One’s okay One’s very okay, one’s lovely. EOS mm EOS And
the other one sh- she was even odd with her mother you know. EOS Mm.
EOS I haven’t heard off her for a year now. EOS Really? EOS I mean her
mum died th- th- th- what three year ago now wouldn’t it be. Yeah. And
erm sh- she’s strange. EOS Mm. EOS Course there’s always strange ones
about. EOS mm EOS P- people say I’m strange. No left channel EOS Well
when I left school- EOS Yeah. EOS when I left school I would I did erm
I work in **anon**- EOS Yeah. EOS in a factory but erm I was a- I was
a cleaner there. EOS Mm. EOS Cleaner. You know full time cleaner. EOS
Oh yeah, yeah. EOS I’ve not just do- I’ve always done cleaning. EOS
Who do you work for? I might know them. EOS Erm well it’s called
**anon**- **anon**. It’s not- they’re not there an- EOS No, no. EOS
But the building’s still there. EOS Yeah. No I don’t remember them.
EOS Erm the- it- quite a few got made redundant. EOS Mm. EOS I
couldn’t tell you how many years that was. EOS Yeah. EOS But I was
made redundant. EOS Yeah. EOS And then I worked in the erm- in the
canteen you know. I’ve done canteen work. EOS mm EOS I’ve done looking
after children- EOS Yeah. EOS And erm as you know I look after dogs
and all this kind of thing. EOS Yeah of course. Yeah yeah. Mm. EOS You
know erm hal- in the fact the people I’ve just c- come back from
Italy- EOS Mm. EOS Erm it was me last night last night cos they came-
EOS They came back did they? Yeah. EOS back yesterday afternoon about
half past two. Yeah. They were very pleased everything was okay you
know. EOS Yeah. EOS Cos they know. I’ve been with them what it must be
about twenty one years I’ve been with them you know cos they know they
can trust me there- EOS Mm, mm, that’s right. EOS you know. They know
the two cats are being getting looked after. EOS That’s the most
important thing in life isn’t it trust. EOS Yeah. EOS Trust t- trust
you know. EOS You know. If they trust you. I’ve got a lady who does my
house work and I come out many a day and she lets herself in and I’ve
got a lot of f- faith in and trust in her and it’s nice to have- EOS
Yeah. EOS Yeah yeah. EOS cos that’s important part of life is trust.
EOS Yeah yeah. EOS You know. EOS Yeah. EOS Isn’t it? I you don’t mind
if I chatter? EOS No you carry on EOS . It’s what he’s good at EOS He
is isn’t he carry on. EOS In ninetee- with having me own business- EOS
Mm. EOS in nineteen seventy four I was invited to join the Rotary Club
**anon**. Have you heard of Rotary? EOS No. EOS No. You’ll- you
might’ve heard of Rotary. EOS I might’ve heard of it. Long time ago .
EOS They used to come round the streets at C- Christmas time with a
Christmas float. Yours in **anon**- EOS Yeah they used to do it- they
used- EOS and Lymm- Lymm- Lymm R- Rotary Club came round. EOS Yeah.
EOS And it- it was- EOS it was started in America originally. EOS Mm.
EOS And it’s for business men you know who’ve reached the top of the
ladder. EOS Yeah. EOS Well I couldn’t go any higher cos I worked
myself. EOS You see. So- EOS I was invited to join you know. EOS Oh.
EOS And that was good. And that gave me a lot of confidence- EOS Mm.
EOS because they have to stand up and s- give a talk once a year. EOS
Right. EOS And I was still very bad stammering. And erm when it was my
t- turn the first time they said ‘Edmund **anon** you don’t have to do
it if you don’t want’. EOS Yeah. EOS I said I’m going to make them
have it you know. But I did it okay because they’re all on your side.
EOS Yeah. EOS That’s the best part of it. EOS mmhmm EOS So I w- I was
in t- twenty one years in Rotary. I was ch- chairman of the community
section which looked after the area you know and I loved- EOS I like
local charity work- EOS Mm. Yeah. Yeah. EOS and looking after the area
where I know. And whenever it was my turn to speak th- the president
would announce it the week before that next weeks speaker is Edmund
Jacobs **anon**- EOS and we’re extending the lunch half an hour EOS Oh
dear. EOS But all that helped you. EOS Yeah. Yeah. EOS Yeah. EOS And
do you know what I ended up there doing? I was speaker’s secretary.
EOS Really? EOS Oh . EOS And yeah. Now that was a good p- part of my
life. EOS Mm. EOS Mm. EOS An- and the wife was in- i- in the ladies
section. I was invited every year to be president but because you had
to visit other clubs I’ve turned it down. But my wife acc- c- cepted
the ladies side of it. EOS Mm. EOS oh right EOS so I used to go out
for free meals with her then. EOS . EOS oh dear. EOS So tha- that was
it. Yeah but in those days Rotary was nearly consisted of- EOS
doctors, surgeons, solicitors. All local people. All the shops in
Urmston were owned b- by the actual owner. They were privately owned.
EOS Oh. EOS And they were all members of the Rotary Club. But there’s
none left now. EOS No no. EOS You’ve got the dentist. You’ve got them
all sorts of- all walks of life as a member. EOS yeah EOS Yeah. EOS
And erm but it’s gone now. You can’t walk into any shop without its
being a big c- concern. EOS Yeah. Mm. EOS I mean there’s not a- a lot
of these shops like **anon** left EOS yeah EOS where you can s- s- see
the owner. EOS Mm. EOS Yeah. EOS They’ve gone. That’s the personal
touch that’s gone. EOS Yeah. EOS Mm. EOS Yeah you’re right. EOS
Because I was- a lady I rented me shop off she said to me cos her’s
was a- next door she says ‘let me give you a bit of advice. Get a good
accountant- EOS Mm. EOS and never lose the personal touch’. EOS Yeah.
EOS And you’re always there to- EOS That’s the thing with the chain
stores isn’t it. EOS Well it is yeah. EOS They don’t have the personal
touches and- EOS It’s sad that isn’t it you know. EOS Mm. EOS And like
I said earlier on the buses were always on time. EOS Mm. EOS I mean I
had to be at work for eight o’clock . Excuse me. And if I missed the
twenty five past seven there was one at half past. EOS Yeah. EOS And
if I missed the half past there was one at twenty five to. And the
twenty five to just got me there. EOS Yeah. EOS Mm. EOS You know. But
there wasn’t as m- many p- people on the roads then- EOS Mm. EOS so
the b- buses weren’t held up. EOS Yeah. EOS Erm have you got anything
else for a- a minute? EOS Well I’m on this- what do local people like?
EOS What do the local people like? EOS Well where I- where I live in
**anon** I’ve got- I’ve got good neighbours. EOS Yeah. EOS You know.
Erm I mean at the back there’s no houses it’s just fields you know.
EOS Mm. EOS Right. EOS I do have good erm some people- EOS Well I’ve
noticed that now. EOS Yeah very ni- EOS Now I’m you know on- on my
own. EOS yeah EOS Everybody knows me. I know them. EOS bet you chat to
them all EOS And erm- and a- a lady opposite with her husband you
know. And when I go out at all in the evening which is not- I don’t
like to go out now. It’s not safe for- EOS Yeah. EOS older people to
go out and that’s one of the sad things of life which I’ll go back to
in a minute that. It’s reminded me of something. Erm I’ve got to let
this lady know I’m going out and w- when I’ll be back. EOS Yeah. EOS
Which is good. EOS Mm. EOS So she can keep an eye on you. EOS It’s to
keep an eye on me cos she knows if- if I don’t get up in the morning
something’s happened don’t they. EOS Mm. EOS You know what they used
to like Fearne **anon**? EOS What? EOS Christmas time. Go into
Manchester looking at **anon** arcade. EOS Oh **anon** aye. EOS When
it was Christmas it- **anon** had long windows down the side of an
arcade. EOS Mm. EOS The other side of the arcade was **anon** and erm
every window was decorated at Christmas with animation and animals and
moving and there was a real spirit of Christmas. EOS Mm. EOS And
people used to go down especially just to look in the windows when it
was closed. EOS Really. EOS Mm. EOS Now I came to Urmston on Sunday
and I drove th- th- through Urmston- excuse me and nearly every window
was shuttered. EOS Mm. EOS Metal shutters. Well in my youth you could
walk and look in all the shops. EOS Yeah. EOS Yeah. EOS Enjoy
yourself. Nowhere was open EOS mm EOS but today it’s all ‘keep out’
shutters- EOS Keep it. Yeah. Keep out, yeah EOS you know. We don’t
want you and all like that and- EOS Mm. EOS No, yeah, yeah. EOS And I
saw s- something the other day that disgusted me really. EOS House for
sale sign and they’ve got to s- s- set them alight these days. Well
what do they get out of it? EOS Yeah. EOS This is it- EOS W- w- what
do you get out of damaging anything? EOS Mm. It’s the same you know a
car’s been stolen. They burn it don’t they. EOS Yeah. EOS Many times
in **anon**- EOS Mmhmm EOS they’re forced to put these new railings up
at that big school. EOS Mmhmm EOS Many time- I- and we used to go in
there and we used to look after the dogs. And they used to take the
dogs in there. EOS yeah EOS I kept them on the lead cos they weren’t
my dogs. EOS mm EOS yeah EOS And erm I used to take you know a doggy
bag with me. EOS Mm. EOS Mm. EOS Anyway you always see- every now and
again you see cars been burned. EOS Oh yeah, yeah. EOS And I f- I feel
sorry for the person. EOS The person yeah. EOS You know. Find out one
morning the car’s not there. EOS Yeah. You can’t- I can’t understand-
EOS I- I can’t understand why they can’t- why they do this kind of
thing. EOS Did you want to ask us any questions? Are w- are w- are we
running out of time? EOS Erm you’ve got t- ten minutes. EOS Ten
minutes! EOS my word. EOS My g- my- EOS Can I just say? Erm my wife
and I we- a lot of people don’t like caravans. EOS Anyway- EOS I had
one and I used to hold people up on the road. You know. EOS Erm EOS we
did about th- th- thirty years you know. But when I- I- I retired my
s- we’ll go up into a motorhome which was as fast as a car could go.
EOS Yeah. EOS And I’ve been all over England, Scotland and Wales and
our hobby when I r- retired was adopting the old guide dogs. EOS
Really? EOS Oh yeah I . EOS Oh I loved doing that and I’ve got five
dogs’ ashes in the back garden. EOS Oh. EOS And I’m an emotional
person and the first dog we adopted w- was- the owner was blind and
deaf. Yeah blind and deaf. So he had to be with a g- guide dog but he
couldn’t hear as well. EOS God that must be difficult. EOS So that was
difficult. EOS Mm. EOS So the pers- so w- got her you know y- y-
you’re interviewed at home to see if you’re suitable. EOS Mm. EOS And
w- when you get the dog they come back in a fortnight to make sure
that you’re- the dogs are settled. EOS mm, mm EOS Yeah. EOS And we- oh
we went to this dog called Honey. And the day before we got a phone
call from the guide dogs. He says ‘I hope you don’t mind he wants to
meet you’. I said ‘no I don’t mind’ you know. And erm- so we went down
and we met him. M- m- my wife sat beside him and questions were asked
and if it meant just a yes or a- a no answer- EOS Mm. EOS my wife had
to either t- t- t- tap his hand for yes. I forget which way round or-
EOS Mm. EOS rub it for no you know. EOS Oh okay EOS And anyway the- he
had a- like a- a machine tha- a braille machine. EOS Yeah. EOS And the
guide dog people used to t- t- type the message in and he picked it
up. EOS Right. EOS So that- but he must’ve gone deaf later in life cos
he could still talk. EOS Yeah. EOS So he could talk to us, anyhow,
after half an hour he’d- he’d handed over the- the- the lead to my
wife. He’d handed over the dog’s tablets. He had his other dog there-
EOS Mm. EOS but he was handing over his eyes and his ears. EOS Aw. EOS
And after half an hour they said to me ‘Mr Jacobs **anon** will you t-
t- take the dog’s lead and go’. Well I got outside there and I thought
I’ve taken his eyes and ears away and I cried my eyes out. and they
had to take me for a cup of tea you know. EOS Aw . EOS It’s- it’s a
traumatic situation- EOS Yep EOS mm EOS taking away- EOS Yeah. I’ve-
I’ve done a lot of erm- I do a lot of charity work for- EOS Yeah. EOS
for animals you know. EOS Oh okay Yeah. EOS And I- you know you had
coppers I’d save them in a carrier bag. EOS Mm yeah. EOS Sainsbury’s
carrier bag and I take them down to erm Sale. EOS Yeah. EOS Mm. EOS
the, you know, for sick animals. That’s what I did because I love
animals you know. I don’t like to see people to be cruel you know. EOS
Oh no no. EOS No. EOS Well I seen a greyhound near- in Partington- EOS
Mm. EOS I don’t know who it belongs to but it had a- like a- one of
these white collars you know. EOS Oh yeah. Yeah. EOS I don’t know if
it had escaped from a greyhound thing or what. EOS Mm somebody owned
it yeah. EOS Or- it came up to me friendly. EOS Mm. EOS I was watching
these- these lads you know. They’re always drinking frigging beer.
Wha- you know. EOS Yeah oh I know. Yeah mm. EOS I didn- I saw this-
this chap ‘go away, go a- away’. EOS Yeah. EOS And I thought leave him
alone. Poor thing’s not doing any harm. EOS Yeah of course he’s not
hurting anyone. EOS Yeah. EOS And I took some biscuits out with me
last night. EOS Mm. EOS and he wasn’t there. EOS Wasn’t there. EOS No
so I don’t know who- who owns it. But it’s a- it’s a shame you know.
EOS Mm. EOS Well, when- when we had ordinary dogs you know pet dogs
before we started to adopt- EOS Mm. EOS Oh that’s right. We got to the
end of the- I- with the guide dogs. EOS I was saying I don’t think I
can have another because of walking them. So the vet came out with the
dogs. He says ‘this dogs are l- these dogs are lovely to walk’. T-
twenty minutes a day and they spent the rest of the time by the fire.
And that was a greyhound. EOS Yeah. EOS Greyhound yeah. EOS Yeah. EOS
Yeah. EOS So erm anyway I- I never got round to it because me doggy
died and then me wife died. EOS Yeah. EOS And on your own you can’t
look after a dog. EOS Yeah. EOS But just going back to life. Fearne
**anon** and myself go to church. EOS Yeah. EOS Now whether that’s
made us any better people I don’t know. EOS Well it does with me
because I mean I do believe. You know. EOS Yeah. EOS I’m- I am a
Christian and I do believe. EOS Yeah mm. EOS And I do a lot for
**anon** church in **anon**. EOS Yeah. EOS mm EOS And I help out with
the Sunday School as well you see- EOS Yeah. EOS Mm. EOS with the
children. The lady what’s been doing it for a- a- well her name’s
**anon**. EOS Mm. EOS She’d been doing it for a long time. She does
all the work you know and everything. EOS Yeah. EOS Yeah. EOS And I
just go in with her to help her you know. EOS mm EOS So- EOS Well- EOS
that’s what I’m going to do as well. EOS I enjoyed ch- church. Really
enjoyed it. Been all me life cos I was first introduced when I was
five. EOS Really? EOS With going to a church school. EOS Mm. EOS And
then a church school. And then I was in the best youth club of all
which was a church and then I moved away from the church w- when I got
married first time. Never went back. And I’ve been a very active
member involved in doing everything. EOS Yeah. EOS And enjoyed it. Now
I won’t mention any names or where I’m going but this vicar doesn’t
get the best out of me. EOS Oh really. EOS Mm. EOS Yeah, and it’s sad
that. EOS Yeah. EOS And he knows it. He’s a nice chap. Great with my
wife when she was poorly. EOS Yeah. EOS Mm. EOS I mean, he said to us
m- me daughter ‘any time night or day you want me call me’. EOS Mm.
EOS Well me wife died at home. Five o clock in the mor- morning. EOS I
was lucky that night that I had erm a nurse f- from **anon** who was
with me. EOS Yeah. EOS Cos I wouldn’t have known what to do on me own
properly. EOS Mm. EOS Mm. EOS So I rang me daughter up. She came and
she said ‘I’m going to ring the vicar’. EOS Yeah. EOS And he was w-
with us within half an hour. EOS Really? Aw. EOS So he- he- he was
good on that side. EOS Yeah. EOS When you really needed him he was
there and I think being a church m- member has helped me a lot in
life. EOS Mm. EOS I- I’m very honest. I’m very sincere. I talk a lot.
EOS I l- I like to listen to you you know. I like to listen to you you
know. EOS I’ve got hundreds of stories that I can’t- I EOS But is it-
an- nearly up yet? EOS yeah. one, two, three EOS yep, that’s fine EOS one, two, three EOS when
you’re ready EOS oh super, we’re on, we’re off and running EOS good
EOS so we’ve got all these things just to discuss then? EOS yeah EOS
that should be good, okay, let’s- let’s start with erm, with- with EOS
what’s your best memory from when you were young Steph **anon**? EOS
gosh, that’s a hard one to begin with EOS my best memory from when I
was young EOS or funniest EOS oh God EOS can you think of anything
funny that happened to you? EOS not funny, no I’m r- I’m rubbish with
a- my memory anyway EOS shall I tell you what one of my funny things
was? EOS you’re best or funny memory, go on, EOS when erm, I fell down
all the steps at Blackpool going onto erm, the beach, some parts of
Blackpool where it’s quite steep from sort of the, where the promenade
is EOS oh yeah EOS and you sort of go down quite a lot of steps EOS
and the way, sort of, the tide comes in, cos it’s quite a strong tide
at Blackpool, isn’t it, there’d quite often at the bottom of the steps
be quite big pools, and I can remember being really, it’s funny now
but it wasn’t at the time EOS but I can remember being really, you
know, dressed up for the holiday with new shorts and a nice tee-shirt
and everything, and went racing down these steps, and they were like
wooden s- I can’t remember whether they were wooden or stone, but
anyway, got towards the bottom and I slipped, and I went skidding and
this puddle at the bottom was quite deep actually, cos obviously it
was only sand, so it could wash away quite easily EOS I can remember
sort of slipping into it all EOS and, it was like, bit muddy as well,
not just sort of nice clean sand EOS how embarrassing EOS and I
remember everyone looking at me, and me Dad picking me up and I was
crying me eyes out a- EOS oh no EOS ah, they had to take me back to
the hotel EOS oh, not good EOS so EOS I can remember a scary moment
when I was younger, with me Dad driving when we’re on our way to
Wales, you can imagine like, there was seven in a car EOS yeah EOS
well, we had one of those like vans, you know, that you used to sit
EOS at the back of EOS yeah EOS it was a little sort of t- with a,
erm, like a transit van but with- with seats in and well, up to the
hilt with luggage EOS yeah EOS c- going- dest- to the Wales for the
caravan and it was in the days when obviously, there’s no motorway, it
was all back roads EOS mmhmm EOS and tiny little villages you had to
go through, so me Dad decides to sort of like, ‘oh, I think I might go
back this way, might be a shortcut’ can imagine, we’re going down a-
and it was just the sheerest hill you have ever seen, and it- oh God,
I- it wasn’t- it was really scary honestly, it was just- it was just
me Mum’s like looking out, the side of the front, EOS it was just like
a sheer drop, he’d gone down this strange road, don’t know why he did,
he thought it was a village EOS yeah EOS set to the village, and it
wasn’t, it one of these country little lanes that just- but the road
was just so, it was just steep like that it- you could hear him on the
brakes going, EOS ah God, it was so- it’s funny now EOS really
petrified EOS scary, it was scary at the time EOS yeah, well that’s
like that one of mine, that- EOS yeah, oh it- it was really funny
though EOS yeah that’s- so he didn’t go that way again though EOS you
should’ve heard me mother EOS I do remember that journey going to
Wales EOS that day yeah, that was a bit scary going down that EOS
yeah, mm EOS really, re- he managed to do it fortunately but, didn’t
go that way again no EOS I wonder where that was then EOS I don’t know
it- I EOS Ruelt or somewhere like that EOS it was so- I was y- I was
so young, I really wouldn’t remember EOS no EOS but yeah, it was do
you know like all the old Flint, and you have to go through all the
old EOS yeah, bet it was- EOS villages like that EOS yeah EOS it was
before one of those, I ah, I couldn’t- I couldn’t believe how steep
this little tiny road he decided to take us down was EOS it was funny
EOS and the brakes on the cars weren’t that good in those days either,
not like now EOS but it was a big- I mean, it was like a big tranny
van thing you know, with all us kids in the back with all the lugga-
it was so fu- I don’t know how he managed it to be honest- I don’t
know why we just didn’t- EOS oh God EOS and it was like turning down,
no, not very nice but that was- it was- it’s f- like as you say, it-
f- it’s funny isn’t it how you EOS mm EOS how you think back, you
think, that was really scary at the time and EOS yeah EOS now you
think, how funny, what th- how EOS I know EOS how funny that was EOS I
know EOS when you think about it now EOS and what, I think this is a
good one, what kind of games did you play? And what- I bet we played
similar sorts of things though EOS cause it was in the street wasn’t
it, just playing EOS in the street, yeah, we used to play like
hopscotch, which was like the favourite one EOS yeah EOS wasn’t it
and, ticky-hit and- EOS yeah EOS or kingy as we used to call it cos we
used to play it with a ball EOS yeah EOS used to chuck a ball at
somebody EOS somebody EOS and if you got them then obviously then they
were it then yeah EOS yeah, yeah EOS and elastics, I used to love
elastics EOS oh we used to play that, we used to take those to school,
cos you just used to buy l- big piece of elastic EOS yeah EOS mm EOS
on a card, and just sort of un- unravel it didn’t you and then just
tie the ends and everyone’d just be skipping EOS just be skipping
along yeah EOS yeah EOS yeah, I used to love elastics, yeah EOS yeah,
we used to go to the park and play rounders a lot, everybody on the
street just loadsa kids, cos there was loads of you EOS yeah EOS just
like on **anon** you know, and EOS yeah EOS you tended to play with
the kids on your street EOS mm EOS so like there were kids who all
played together on the next street EOS yeah EOS and then occasionally
you’d see them, but whenever you went anywhere you went with the kids
who were like on your street EOS yeah, you didn’t really integrate
really did you? EOS no EOS was that **anon** you used to go across to?
EOS we used to go across **anon** EOS yeah EOS either to **anon** or
to **anon**, which was at the back near the railway, erm EOS right, I
don’t know that one EOS but yeah, it was **anon** more than anything
and we used to play on the big field there EOS yeah cos you’re quite
close there aren’t you, to that one EOS yeah, we used to take erm, EOS
I’m trying to think, it was probably a tennis racquet, so you could
really whack the ball EOS ow EOS cause like you’d be running, EOS
across- across the erm- EOS not quite rounders then EOS like the
little kiddies play area and then across the erm, bowling area, yeah,
and I used to be able to really whack it, so we used to do that, and
then we used to take erm, for the slide, cos it was quite a bit slide
in **anon** so we used to take a piece of greaseproof paper, I bet
**anon** thinks ‘God this sounds like’ EOS yeah EOS you know eh- sixty
years ago EOS oh yeah, you had to, yeah to, yeah EOS but you used to-
did you- do you know this? EOS no EOS you used to sort of put it on
your bottom EOS yeah, oh aye EOS used to sit on it and slide down the
slide and it made the slide go faster EOS yeah EOS so then the next
person who was on it after that, it was like EOS yeah EOS straight
down EOS really, really did- EOS grease it up EOS yeah EOS really,
yeah, really used to grease up the erm, the side EOS God EOS
definitely EOS yeah EOS so we used to do that, and then erm, play on
the erm, roundabout with a lolly stick didn’t you, EOS yeah EOS it’s
so dangerous at the time, cos it was all concrete EOS oh yeah, and
they dropped it and you had to pick it up as you were on the way
round, yeah EOS so, so this thing, you know like, erm, EOS yeah, I
remember that now EOS just like a roundabout that went round, the old
fashioned type, EOS yeah, thrupenny bit they was called EOS but y- EOS
or- or the spider even EOS yeah, the spider, we used to throw a lolly
stick and then it- somebody would be going round, they’d get their
sort of foot going and they’d run wouldn’t they and get it faster and
faster and faster like that EOS and then you’d all jump on and they
you used to hang on with one side and lean down EOS and pick up as you
whizzed past, try and pick up EOS try and get the lolly stick EOS a
lolly stick and graze all you arm in the proceeds EOS oh no EOS doing
it EOS no wonder I used to have so many headaches, EOS I used to have
erm, EOS that’s where your migraines are coming from EOS loadsa
headaches doing all of that, so yeah, just loadsa time in the park
really, just used to, in the holidays EOS it was the park yeah, you
just used to EOS just go out for hours EOS and of course you didn’t
have mobile phones and things so EOS yeah EOS yeah EOS but, I think
your parents were glad to get rid of you really weren’t they EOS mm
EOS oh yeah, but I had to be in at a certain time EOS yeah EOS
otherwise I’d really get told off EOS oh yeah EOS you know, it was
like half past nine and EOS yeah EOS if you’re not in you’re in
trouble EOS I don’t remember going out much in the evening though EOS
no EOS to be honest EOS do you not? Oh yeah, we- EOS now whether we
did and it was just summer and you just had, like, you say, you had to
be back at a certain time EOS yeah, she didn’t like us out being after
dark EOS no EOS but yeah, summer time EOS but during the day in the
school holidays you could- EOS oh during the day yeah, just anytime
yeah EOS just take a bottle of something to drink EOS just came back
when- when we were hungry like you do EOS yeah EOS yeah, that’s right
EOS yeah, ‘feed me, I’m hungry now’ yeah EOS I don’t know many stories
about my grandparents though, EOS no EOS I didn’t really know my
grandparents very well, cos- EOS well I didn’t know one Granddad cos
he died before me Mum got married even EOS yeah EOS her Dad died
before she got married EOS so in terms of good stories EOS I just know
me Granddad was dead grumpy on me Dad’s side EOS was he EOS he used to
call- yeah EOS he- he- oh God, yeah, he used to just come, and he used
to just come in and he’d- he would say, ‘hello’ you know, like, you
haven’t got like- like the kids of today, they haven’t got the
relationship with their EOS no EOS grandparents that we had, they were
just these old people that just turned up and you just thought, ‘oh,
okay’ EOS and he’d sit down, and then he’d- he’d just say, ‘well, does
anybody want one of these or what’ and it’s like, you know, y- your
mints EOS yeah EOS and they’re stinking of mothballs out of his pocket
EOS eurgh EOS he used to always insist you have one of his mints EOS
ah, no that was me Granddad on me Dad’s side, can just- that’s all y-
I remember about him, just being big grumpy man with smelly mints EOS
oh right I can remember my Granddad who lived next door to us on
**anon** cos he used to put me on his shoulders and take me to the
sweet shop EOS ahh EOS but I was- I was really young, and then he
died, he was- day- died in an accident at work EOS mm EOS erm, and me
Nanna lived a bit, you know, quite a, few years longer, but not, when
I was, you know, older EOS yeah EOS c- I was probably probably about
six then EOS oh right, yeah EOS but I ant- but my Granddad probably
EOS died when I was about three something like that, so I have really
young memories of them EOS you have, yeah, cos my, yeah the person-
the Granddad I’m talking about, I had- was thirteen when he died EOS
yeah EOS so, again EOS yeah EOS it’s quite early really EOS it is it’s
quite young EOS yeah EOS when you sort of think about, like, sort of
**anon** and yourselves, you know EOS mm EOS with your grandparents
and the time you’ve spent with them EOS yeah EOS yeah, it’s a longer
time EOS yeah so EOS and I can remember my Mum’s Mum she was very much
like Mum, she was small lady, but she had one leg longer than the
other and I can- and I can- all I can picture of her now is, erm,
going through our living room into the kitchen, and there was like a
doorway, and she just used to stand there and she was just swinging
her leg back and forth EOS she had to exercise her leg EOS cause it
used to get very stiff and very you know, EOS mm EOS just sore EOS
sore EOS and- and- and ache really, more of an ache EOS yeah EOS she
used to have built up shoes, her shoe- her other shoe like- was like
the- the heel, bit like platforms I suppose nowadays EOS yeah, yeah
EOS but they- the- the- the sole and the heels were like massive EOS
and was it just on one? On- yeah EOS just one leg, EOS on one leg, mm
EOS she had one leg about four inches shorter than the other EOS yeah
EOS and I can just remember she used to always come to EOS the house
and she use to always s- stand in the doorway and she was always in
the kitchen doorway and leg would be swinging back and forth, back and
forth, for- for ages she’d just be stood there EOS mm EOS so that’s
just the memory of my Gran that I have, it’s weird isn’t it, how you
just EOS yeah EOS nothing really else, we didn’t do anything with her,
she just came to the house and perhaps we had tea and- but I just can
see her, stood there, EOS yeah EOS swinging her leg EOS we- we never
saw much of me Mum’s side, even if you know, it was her Mum and me
Mum’s Dad died before I was born, because me Mum always said, ooh,
they lived a long way away, you know EOS ahh EOS ‘oh yeah, they li-
they live a long way’ and when you think about it now, it was only the
other side of Manchester EOS really EOS but because me Mum didn’t
drive EOS yeah, it just seemed a long way EOS mm EOS me Dad did have a
car, there’d be occasions when he didn’t have a car EOS mm EOS I
think, cos they were older cars and if it failed its MOT or the
equivalent of the MOT EOS yeah EOS I think you just have to sell it,
and that was it, you didn’t have a car for a while EOS I know EOS and
then you saved up and you bought another one, erm, so EOS me Dad had a
car but he’d be using that for work anyway, erm, and me Mum didn’t
drive, and then I suppose, she then got sort of a part time job when
we were at school, so I suppose they just didn’t have the time and it-
EOS no, they probably didn’t EOS mm EOS you know, it would’ve been
probably two buses EOS yeah EOS yeah EOS to get there EOS it’s a long-
long journey EOS mm EOS but erm, so yeah, I don’t think it was that
far away, we’d just jump in the car and drive there now EOS yeah EOS
but to them it was sort of EOS major sort of EOS yeah EOS day out
really EOS yeah EOS wasn’t it EOS so we just seemed to see more of my
Dad’s side of the family because they all lived in Stretford EOS
nearby, mm EOS mm EOS or Sale, you know, they were all sort of like
within the vicinity if you know what I mean EOS I think you find that
anyway don’t you, some, more often EOS yeah, so you tend to sort of
find that, and I’ve only one recollection of me Mum’s Mum erm, and
again, I must’ve been really, really, young and I can remember she
kept saying, ‘she’s gonna hurt herself, she’s gonna hurt herself, grab
hold of her’ I think at- she must’ve had a cellar and the door must’ve
been open EOS and I just have this vague recollection of seeing steps
going down EOS mm EOS downstairs which I’d never seen before cos we
didn’t have a cellar at our house, so I just must’ve been mesmerised
by these steps EOS by the steps EOS and possibly they didn’t have- she
didn’t have a door on it EOS yeah EOS and she was trying to keep me
away, and I can remember her saying something to me Mum like, I think
these were her words, ‘you’ve got your hands full with her’ EOS ‘ooh,
you’ve got your hands full with that one’ EOS I must’ve been a bit EOS
you must’ve done EOS you know, EOS frightening her EOS a bit hyper or
something like that EOS did you ever get hurt whilst you were playing
as a kid? Well, we’ve covered that haven’t we in terms of like, the
games you used to play EOS yeah, I did get hurt beca- I remember- I
remember playing erm, EOS yeah EOS well, I- I think it was just
something I- I was doing meself, it wasn’t a game that any- I had erm,
a broom pole, you know the hand- the- the brush bit had come off the
broom EOS yeah EOS so I just had th- the pole bit, and I remember
rolling it, I don’t know why, I just remember rolling it in front of
me and then deciding to jump over it and of course, in my haste to try
and jump over it, I’d rolled it, and I didn’t clear it, and I put me
foot on it EOS and of course, rolled with it EOS mm EOS and I just
remember going right back and banging EOS ooh EOS my head so hard on
the concrete, I can remember doing that, such a lump came up EOS ooh
EOS but I remember that’s- that’s the only time I’ve really hurt
myself, I’ve never like broken any bones, EOS mm EOS no EOS I’ve
never- touch wood, I’ve never broken a leg, broken an arm EOS yeah EOS
you know, had anything in plaster, EOS yeah EOS or you know, slashed
meself or anything EOS no EOS or cuts and bruises, I just remember, I
don’t know how old- in fact it was before we moved into Stretford so I
must’ve only been about six, five or six EOS yeah EOS I just
remembered it, but isn’t it funny cos I can remember that though cos
it blooming EOS you can remember that, and going backwards and really
banging your head EOS yeah, and really banging me head, yeah and cos
like, you know, me crying me eyes out, coming running in, ‘what’ve you
done, what’ve you done’ EOS so of course, like, you know, lying there
and then she thinks I’ve got concussion then, EOS ‘you mustn’t go to
sleep’ you know, ‘you must stay awake’ EOS ‘wake up’ EOS ‘wake up’ EOS
‘wake up, stay awake, stay awake’ I can remember, **anon**, erm being
knocked out by a swing EOS really? EOS in **anon**, EOS mm EOS me Mum
was with us, and erm, she’d taken us- she’d obviously taken us to the
park and **anon** was probably about EOS about three, something like
that, so I’m three years older than her, so I’m six EOS mm EOS and
erm, I can just picture it now, where the swings were and she just
ran, and a swing that somebody- a kiddy was on came forward EOS mm,
just forward EOS oh EOS and sort of whacked her on her forehead and
knocked- literally knocked her out, she- she EOS she would’ve done,
yeah EOS passed out with it and I can re- Mum- member me Mum sort of
really shouting and picking her up and like, holding her in her arms,
and running erm, onto **anon** cos there’s a doc- there’s still a
doctor’s surgery there anyway EOS mm EOS but there was one that backed
onto the park EOS ah EOS and she ran out of the gates, and I’m running
after her and she’s going, ‘come on, keep up’ EOS she’s running EOS
and she just went flying into the doctor’s surgery EOS oh Lord EOS I
think she’d come round by that time, EOS yeah EOS yeah EOS but she’s
still got the scar **anon** EOS really? EOS if you look, a very little
scar just on her head where the things just- EOS where it’s hit her
EOS yeah, cos they were wood weren’t they in the main EOS they were
wood, yeah EOS sort of wooden seats, so I think it just sort of EOS
yeah, they were quite heavy EOS yeah EOS swung out, so, yeah, EOS just
caught her EOS I can remember that being really, really scary EOS I
can imagine EOS did you ever get into trouble for something at school?
EOS get into trouble EOS I was quite good really EOS no, I was- I was
good unfortunately EOS yeah, EOS I can remember getting into trouble-
EOS we did play truant once, it was our **anon** doing EOS ah EOS
‘let’s- let’s have the day off’ and we got caught straight away we got
back EOS it didn’t- it didn’t work somehow EOS think, ‘you know what,
we won’t- we won’t do that again’ EOS no, no EOS so who caught you?
EOS I’d- I think **anon** must’ve written a note that wasn’t very good
I don’t know EOS I don’t think she’s a very good forger of the erm,
the old signature though EOS didn’t pass then EOS so erm, no, we’d
gone into town, we’d spent the day in town, I don’t know why, she just
decided ‘let’s not go to school’, so erm, so we didn’t, s- no, but I-
yeah, we got called into erm, the headmistresses office so it wasn’t
good EOS I didn’t get totally told off, I mean it was our erm, first
offence EOS erm, but EOS ahh EOS erm, it was a bit scary so she made
me go to the teacher EOS that I was in the class of next, you know,
when I was going, and then erm, she says, ‘you’re gonna have to go and
explain now, to the teacher now, why you weren’t in school yesterday’
and it was dead embarrassing cos it was the- it had to be the teacher
that you fancied didn’t it EOS oh no EOS it was the Biology teacher
EOS is that- what EOS and everybody fancied the Biology teacher EOS oh
no EOS he was lovely and he was my form teacher at the time and I had
to go an explain to him why I wasn’t in school EOS the previous day, I
didn’t EOS oh, that’s awful isn’t it EOS I didn’t, I- I- I cowered out
of that I just said, ‘ooh, I’ve been to see the headmistress, I’ve
gotta come join the class now’ EOS ahh, I can remember getting into-
EOS but I wasn’t, yeah- I wasn’t n- I wasn’t a troublemaker EOS no, I
can remember, only two things really, one of them was Sunday school,
and it wasn’t about being naughty it was about turning something down
that I was asked to do because I was shy and it- I was asked to be
Mary in the nativity play at Sunday school EOS ahh EOS and it just
scared me so much EOS wa- having to walk down the aisle, cos that-
they always did it, not erm, we used to go to Sunday school in the
church hall, but the actual nativity play always took place in the
church EOS mm EOS and I can remember watching it meself and Mary and
Joseph would walk down the aisle, and I can remember thinking, ‘I’m
not walking down the aisle with a boy’ EOS ‘holding a baby doll
holding Jesus’ EOS and the- just the thought of it EOS what, the
starring part as well EOS yeah, it scared me so much EOS ahh EOS so I
just said, no I didn’t wanna do it, thinking nothing of it EOS but cos
Mum and Dad also went to church as well, and knew the Sunday school
teachers, they told her EOS the following, you know, sh- or she told
them the following week, they said, ‘ooh, we’ve asked Shona **anon**
to be erm, Mary and she’s- she’s said no’ EOS and I can remember when
I got home, Mum and Dad went mad with me EOS did they EOS they said,
‘fancy turning that down you had- you could’ve had the starring role’
EOS I said, ‘but I didn’t want the starring role, I-’ in fact all I
kept thinking about all the time was wanting to be an angel, cos I
wanted somebody to do those big wings EOS and put them on me back, and
I fancied being- cos it was all nice, and white, and pretty wasn’t it,
and so Mary just had a- EOS the angels? Yeah, and they didn’t really
do much, they just stood there, looking pretty EOS Mary had a horrible
blue sort of, like, tea-towely looking dress on EOS and, you know,
Mary, dark blue, stripes, Angel, white, wings EOS yeah, strange thing
on your head EOS no-one’s- I wanted to be the an- I EOS it- you can
see why EOS yeah, I wouldn’t- and I wouldn’t’ve minded being erm,
Gabriel, something like that EOS so did they think you were very
ungrateful then and not- EOS they thought I was really ungrateful
because they’d actually chosen me cos, you know, they thought I could
EOS mm EOS carry it off and EOS mm EOS so I can remember my Mum and
Dad really telling me off, and then the other time I can remember
being in trouble was, erm, when I was at grammar school, and we erm,
rather than go out through the doors, we d- opened all the windows and
climbed out EOS not realising that, as you climbed out, it was only
our first year, the erm staff room was sort of at right angles to
where the main classrooms were, EOS oh no EOS so of course all the
teachers EOS were sat eating their lunch EOS saw these legs come out
of the window EOS oh, good Lord EOS and we all climb out onto the
tennis- you know where- cos the tennis courts were just below EOS
cause it was a really long walk round EOS mm EOS and down onto the
field EOS so you’d just taken a shortcut EOS so we thought, ‘we’ll
take a shortcut’ so erm, yeah I can remember having to restack, you
know all those stackable chairs EOS ooh EOS they used to be really
heavy with like canvas seats in those days EOS oh yeah, and those iron
legs EOS with the- with the metal frames EOS mm EOS we had to erm,
there was probably about four, five of us who had done it and they got
us all in, so we had a detention, and we had to restack all the chairs
in the hall that- EOS ooh, punishment EOS so, but that was it, so it
was nothing particularly exciting EOS yeah EOS we’re not really
naughty EOS no, no EOS that’s EOS but erm, but no I was really, really
embarrassed and I can remember my friend who also did it at, you know,
the same time and erm, we were sort of told off really EOS mm EOS erm,
at registration I think in the afternoon EOS you know, lunch, after
lunch, erm, I think we were in the, our classroom then, or form room
was the music room and I can remember we were up there, with sort of,
one of the music teachers, and she said, ‘five girls who will remain
nameless’ EOS so I’m looking up thinking, ‘I’m not going to look
guilty, cos they won’t know who it is, so I’m just’ EOS and me friend
was at the side of me, who’d also been caught, and she just sat there
crying her eyes out EOS I thought, ‘well, you’re making it really
obvious’ EOS cause she’s going blowing her nose EOS ah, guilty as
charged EOS but yeah we were- we were really embarrassed that we’d
been naughty, whereas you know, probably now, EOS wouldn’t care EOS
kids’d just think, ‘oh, I’m just climbing out the window, wasn’t doing
anything’ EOS yeah EOS but really mortifed the fact that we’d done
something wrong, whether it was because it was the first year and we
didn’t know everyone that well EOS and you didn’t like to be thought
that you were gonna be like that kind of EOS a troublemaker EOS
troublemaker, yeah EOS mm EOS you just think, ‘oh, I’m scarred now,
they’re gonna just think I’m like that all the time’ EOS yeah EOS yeah
EOS yeah EOS least teachers, hmm EOS your hometown well, I’ve
certainly not lived anywhere else, you’ve not have you lived in
Manchester EOS not in town wise, no, Manchester, yeah EOS well, where
were your parents from Steph **anon** EOS erm, **anon** EOS were they
both from Manchester? EOS yeah, me Dad used to, yeah, he was from
**anon** erm, and me Mum was from down South, **anon** way EOS oh was
she? I didn’t know that EOS we- yeah, she didn’t live there very long
EOS she come up North EOS come up North, then, yeah EOS yeah EOS so
she met me Dad and then they just, yeah, it was erm, **anon** they
sort of settled in, so EOS yeah yeah my Mum was from **anon** and my
Dad was from **anon** EOS oh EOS but then, his family moved to
**anon** cos it was posh then EOS well it was, yeah it was a posh
place to come to, yeah EOS from **anon**, cos **anon** was low key and
dirty EOS yeah EOS and **anon** was EOS still a suburb then wasn’t it
EOS mm oh yeah EOS erm, so EOS it was a more well to do place to move
to EOS yeah, so me Dad’s family moved there, and I think my Dad had
just met me Mum just before they moved, and then me Mum and Dad bought
the house next door to EOS yeah EOS erm, my Dad’s Mum and Dad EOS ahh
EOS so, they were like sort of, living next door to each other EOS mm
EOS u- up until fairly recently when the house had st- my Aunt- me
Grandma’s house, me Nanna’s house had stayed in the same family, it
was erm, her daughter and husband who ended up living in the house,
and then me Mum had been there for a long, long time EOS mm EOS she’d
been there for about forty years, so me Mum and her sister-in- law
were still living there EOS oh right EOS so, all those years later EOS
mm EOS me Mum said, ‘and I never liked it, I never wanted to live
there’ EOS and she lived there for forty years EOS long time EOS I
don’t think people sort of, tended to move did they, they sort of
tended to stay in the same house EOS not really no, we had to move
from Old Trafford cos our house was being demolished EOS so we had no
choice EOS oh you did didn’t you EOS yeah, they pulled down our houses
EOS yeah, big houses EOS so erm, EOS big terraced houses EOS they were
terraced houses yeah, yeah, big rooms, but erm, it’s- but it wasn’t
really big enough for us because like me Mum used to use the front
parlour, as it were then, as a- a bedroom EOS oh right EOS erm, so EOS
so is it still just three bedroom? EOS still three bedrooms, yeah, so
it was- and with- with being like, you know, two lads, two girls and
it was a bit cramped EOS yeah EOS that was before **anon** came along,
**anon** came along after we moved you see EOS ahh EOS so erm, EOS so
did you- you s- your other house, the house your Mum and Dad lived in
when I met you, did that seem a lot bigger when you got there? EOS it
was a lot bigger, and of course, we had the garden which was like,
marvellous, you know, we only had a little yard before EOS yeah EOS
and the outside toilet so, to have a bathroom and a garden, it was
like a palace wasn’t it EOS yeah EOS it was lovely, although it was
very different, what y- how you remember the house, it was very
different when we first moved in EOS yeah EOS because there was- there
was two rooms EOS yeah, cos it was quite open plan, your Mum- they’d
knocked it through hadn’t they EOS yeah, they’d knocked down quite a
few walls, erm, when we first moved in that house it was like one of
these where you- you go through one door and you’re in- in the front
room, you go through another door and you’re in the dining area, you
go through another door and you’re in the kitchen, and then you come
back in this door, and you’re back in the hall EOS yeah EOS so as kids
we used to drive my Mum mental, EOS just running EOS just running
round, chasing each other EOS round and round all these doors, it was
great EOS hiding from each other? ‘Where’s she gone?’ EOS just- just-
just chasing EOS just- just playing ticky-hit round the doors EOS oh
God EOS she’d go mad with us EOS yeah, yeah EOS but it was just so
much space you know, just EOS yeah EOS even though the rooms were,
like- EOS I was gonna say, the rooms probably wouldn’t be that much
bigger than, no EOS no, the room- the rooms weren’t too bad EOS no EOS
but, it was just the fact that we could- we could just utilise each
room, you know EOS yeah EOS before like, we were just stuck in one
room in the back EOS mm EOS and when you say big rooms they were- they
were- I don’t think it was probably as big as your Mum’s perhaps EOS
oh, it wasn’t, no EOS it didn’t- it was- it would probably the same as
this room EOS you know, blocked off here but not per- EOS mm EOS quite
as wide EOS yeah EOS they- they looked bigger from the outside than
they did EOS yeah, sometimes, cos they’re higher, EOS yeah EOS they’re
sort of deceptive aren’t they, yeah EOS the front bedroom was
enormous, where **anon** and I had the front bedroom, and that was a
massive great big room EOS yeah EOS but then you’d got like erm,
smaller room at the back EOS everything’s sorta smaller after that EOS
yeah EOS yeah EOS but, it was- I mean, we were only young then so I
suppose they seemed bigger EOS seems bigger EOS anyway to what I- I-
they probably were EOS yeah EOS no, but we loved erm, we loved it when
we moved to Stretford, it was the bees knees then EOS yeah EOS I
remember getting lost though, I was supposed to- cos we’d not moved
schools at that point, and we were still at **anon** EOS yeah EOS
there at **anon** there and I was supposed to wait for our **anon** to
come and pick me up, I’ve probably told you this story, I had to wait
for our **anon** to bring me to the new house EOS yeah EOS cause it
was like from **anon** it’s a bus drive EOS quite a long way for
kiddies isn’t it EOS yeah EOS from **anon** to EOS mm EOS when you
think of it now, it’s just like five EOS ten minutes down the road
but, EOS yeah EOS to me it was like, you know, it was like EOS no,
it’s a long way EOS miles EOS yeah EOS it was like an hours journey
EOS when really you only went to school like, down at the end of the
street, or round the corner didn’t you EOS exactly, yeah so of course,
I came out of school, and I’m sat there on the wall thinking, ‘ooh,
where is he’ course, when you’re a kiddy, like, five minutes is an
hour EOS yeah EOS so I’m thinking, ‘oh, he’s not here, he’s not- he’s
gone without me, where is he, where is he’ so I’m wandering off to the
shops, you know, on- on, erm EOS yeah EOS the main- the main shops
where I remembered I c- I can find me way to and I’m thinking, right,
I’ve got here, now what do I do’ I hadn’t a clue where I was, I didn’t
know where I’ve got to go to EOS no EOS I couldn’t- I didn’t know how
to get home, I knew where I lived, EOS mm, mm EOS she’d given me the
address to write, put in me pocket EOS mm EOS hadn’t a clue how to get
there, so I go in the shop, ‘I’m lost, I’m lost’ EOS ‘me brother’s not
come for me’ EOS oh no EOS ‘I don’t know where I am’, I’m crying me
eyes out, this poor woman in this shop being like ‘what’ EOS so of
course, they phone up the police, don’t they EOS oh no EOS so I get to
go home in a police car EOS ooh, I didn’t know EOS about that’s one
thing you’ve never told me EOS shocking, shocking, no, it’s shocking
no, I hadn’t a clue where I was but I could tell him where I lived so,
there we are EOS I’m in the police car, taking me home get to the
front door, and our **anon** gets a right bollocking off me Mum EOS
‘why didn’t you wait for your daughter st- your sister to come out of
school?’, ‘I did, I did, I did, she wasn’t there, I got there and she
wasn’t there’, so funny EOS ahh EOS so, no, we kinda both got told off
EOS but he- it was c- shame, cos he was only like, you know, he was
only f- four years older than me EOS I was gonna say, it’s ea- it’s
easy to forget isn’t it when you’re a kiddy anyway EOS yeah, EOS yeah
EOS cause that was it, I’d be only what, I’d be seven when I moved EOS
yeah EOS so really that’s a ch- it is still a child, isn’t it, seven,
wandering around the streets on your own EOS oh God it is, yeah EOS
and he was, s- seven, eight, n- he was only- he’d only be eleven, so
he wasn’t much older EOS yeah, so it’s still only young isn’t it EOS
it’s a big responsibility then for an eleven year old to try and get
your sister EOS it’s easy to sort of, forget these things EOS yeah EOS
yeah EOS it was so funny, like, yeah, got, yeah, got sent home, so I-
I always think now that’s why I have a fear of getting lost EOS mm EOS
because I remember being EOS in that place, not knowing where the heck
I was, and it was- is- EOS mm EOS it’s just a horrible feeling of just
oh EOS what do I do EOS where am I, you know, I- EOS yeah EOS I don’t
know how to get from here to where I need to be, and I’m still like
that, if I’m in the car and I’m EOS yeah EOS driving and I take a
wrong turn I panic something terrible EOS oh it must- yeah, EOS I’m
shocking EOS it must me associated with that, yeah EOS I’ve cried
before now when I’ve come off the motorway at the wrong junction,
cried, EOS where am I going, and I’m crying me eyes out, cos I don’t
know where I’m going EOS and I’ve to find meself back on meself, scare
meself to death EOS oh right, no I- you see I don’t get scared I just
think, EOS I’m useless, absolutely useless EOS ‘oh well’ EOS yeah EOS
yeah EOS carry on a bit further and it’ll all make sense EOS mm EOS
and I’m sure I’ll find where I am, and you usually do don’t you, y-
cos you sort of think- you see another sign or whatever EOS probably
do yeah, well I- I do anyway, if I do go off the beaten track, you do
kind of- but I just EOS yeah, but that’s probably why, probably goes
back to then doesn’t it EOS yeah, I just have this, such a fear of
having to go anywhere on my own and then not being able to find meself
where I need to go if I do EOS mm EOS sort of take the wrong turning,
or EOS mm EOS get on the wrong train, that f- that’s our **anon** you
see, when we went to Liverpool we got on the- we went- well, we got to
Liverpool, we were supposed to be going to Wales we got on the wrong
train EOS oh no EOS we were supposed to be going to Wales and we get
on this train and we end up in Liverpool so again, that was like, ‘oh
God, where are we, why are we here’ EOS **anon** at it, ‘don’t worry,
don’t worry, we’ll find our way, we’ll find our way’ EOS ‘well sort
it, we’ll sort it’ EOS but it’s again, it’s like I’m in the middle of
this place thinking, ‘oh my God’ ‘well, what train do we get now’ EOS
yeah, well you sound as though you were a bit more adventurous and had
to go further, whereas I was always just around Stretford if you know
what I mean EOS mm EOS didn’t really go very far EOS go anywhere EOS
and I think, looking at that one there- EOS you’re making up for it
now you see there EOS making up for it now things about, how has
community and things changed, I think when we were younger, apart from
you going off to Liverpool EOS laugh] EOS and not getting home, erm,
was everything was around your own little area wasn’t it? EOS yeah it
was really yeah, it- it was close EOS e- everything you did was sort
of like EOS yeah EOS close knit EOS I mean, w- with me it was sort of
like, there was **anon**, the school at the end, the church, EOS yeah
EOS the park EOS you didn’t even have to get a bus really did you EOS
the shops EOS mm EOS every- everything was EOS already in the road
really EOS you know, we, yeah, we used to go up to the precinct when
that opened, but that’s only about f- fifteen minute walk EOS but that
was- that was going- well that was, yeah, that was sort of, quite a
distance EOS again, that’s close isn’t it? EOS but we’d go shopping in
Manchester, so we’d get- either go in the car or get the bus into
Manchester, with my Mum and Dad, you know when we were EOS mm EOS used
to go to C and A for your new clothes EOS so it was all, C- C and A,
erm, or Altrincham sometimes we used to get the bus to Altrincham, but
it was mainly town, but other than that EOS mm EOS just going for
things like that EOS yeah EOS you know, sort of clothes for holidays
and things, it was generally just everything around where you lived
EOS where you lived, it was always, yeah but then there wasn’t the the
choice then was there, you know what I mean EOS no EOS you didn’t have
like, things like the Trafford Centre or I mean, the- the- they hadn’t
even got the Arndale, they built that after we’d moved, it was still
Kings Street with all the little shops on it EOS oh yeah, yeah EOS I
can remember that, sort of the, you know, the old shops along Kings
Street EOS so when they- yeah EOS that’s right and then the precinct
was built EOS sort of, probably around the time you moved then wasn’t
it EOS must’ve been, yeah EOS yeah but we, erm, we were always doing
stuff for the church in terms of erm, delivering Christian Aid
envelopes, and collecting jumble, and, so EOS oh really, yeah, so EOS
yeah, just loads of our time, EOS just, with your church EOS just sort
of spent doing things like that EOS mm EOS and then my Dad did erm,
quite a bit for the Summer Fair and then the Christmas Fair and I can
remember one year, I don’t know whether I’ve told you this, we’d had a
Christmas Fair, and then he decided, for the next Christmas Fair he
was gonna make this really good grotto on the stage in the church hall
and he decided he was going to go to **anon**, cos we’d been there as
kids, you know, to see Father Christmas EOS mm EOS cause it was always
the best place to see Father Christmas, **anon**, wasn’t it? EOS oh
yeah, it was, in them days, yeah, we used to go to- EOS mm EOS you
always got a really nice gift at the end of it EOS used to go to town,
yeah, Christmas EOS yeah EOS and me Dad sort of decided he was gonna
go up there and try and get a- have a word with one of the managers
and ask, could he, erm, take away some parts of the grotto EOS oh EOS
and rebuild it in miniature EOS oh right EOS very miniature EOS very
miniature, for the ch- EOS on the stage EOS oh right, for the- EOS
erm, so he did and it was all like polystyrene sort of things, and
anyway he built this sort of little thing that Father Christmas sat
inside the following year EOS and everything, I can remember him
bringing these bits back, bit-by- bit in his car, cos he only had a
car EOS his little building blocks, and erm, storing them underneath
the stage at the erm, church hall, in **anon** EOS oh, good grief EOS
and then the following Christmas he got them all out, and built this
thing up EOS and, cos somebody dressed up, not him, he never dressed
up, somebody dressed up as Father Christmas and that was our little-
EOS and that was your grotto EOS **anon** grotto EOS ahh, that’s nice
EOS so it was always sorta things like that really so nothing too
exciting, but EOS oh and brownies, were you in brownies? EOS erm, for
about two weeks EOS why EOS you st- why was it only for that long? EOS
I j- I just thought it was really b- I think it must’ve been the
brownies where we were going to EOS mm EOS yeah, I think it depends
on, yeah EOS it just wasn’t being run, I don’t think EOS no EOS as a
Brownie EOS was it boring? EOS it was EOS yeah EOS yeah, it was
terrible EOS I just thought, why am I coming here, it’s- I’d go pff,
EOS I can’t remember now what- why, if you ask me now EOS yeah EOS
what- how it was boring, but I just remember going, and thinking
‘right, that’s about it’ ‘I’ve given in two weeks’ EOS can remember
erm, the badges, I was mesmerised by the ba- badges, and I- I wanted
to be- I had this fixation EOS being an angel, there was fairies, I
wanted to be a fairy EOS cause that was the prettiest badge EOS it was
the nicest girliest badge, and I wasn’t, I was an imp EOS oh right,
EOS cos they just select you for whatever EOS yeah EOS and they go,
‘oh you’re-’ EOS oh as your group? EOS ‘you’re imps’ yeah and then I
can remember years ago EOS what was it called, we never had these when
we were there, ‘the gillydoos’ EOS yeah EOS what the hell were ‘the
gillydoos’, it was all imps and pixies and fairies when I was there
EOS oh EOS when **anon** went many, you know EOS mm EOS obviously,
years later, and probably when you were there **anon** EOS yeah EOS
what the hecks a ‘gillydoo’ EOS there was a what they called, a- a six
EOS yeah, that’s right EOS a six called the gillydoos, I never heard
of a gillydoo EOS don’t know what that is EOS no, so anyway, I want-
wanted to be erm, in the fairies EOS it’s a good job I wasn’t a bloke
EOS erm, but I was an imp EOS oh EOS oh dear, never mind EOS but erm,
EOS well you stuck it out anyway, longer than me EOS but no, I did
stick it out so it must’ve been quite well run EOS yeah EOS but again,
that was in the church, every- everything was- everything that EOS my
whole life, if I- if it- if they did it in the church hall, you went
to it EOS mm, yeah EOS yeah and then me Dad did bingo, he used to do
bingo for OAPs EOS did he? EOS yeah and he got the old bingo machine
from the **anon** when they updated theirs EOS really EOS he was
always on the c- EOS he’s on- he’s always on the EOS he’s always on
the catch EOS on the look out, yeah, on the catch EOS yeah EOS for
stuff EOS yeah, yeah at- cos at first he did it sort of all home made,
with erm, just sort of blocks with EOS yeah EOS you know, you pull
things out of the bag, and then eventually had like a machine where it
popped out EOS ooh, proper rolling one EOS oooh EOS bit like on the l-
national lottery EOS it’s still working but obviously a bit old
fashioned EOS yeah EOS but erm, no everybody, I think they thought
that was really good EOS so EOS people EOS what local events, news
history do you think it’s important people know about in your town?
think we’ve really got that much history really have we, I suppose, we
have Manchester, but EOS mm EOS yeah, I mean you’ve got the- EOS
there’s nothing EOS you’ve got the- EOS particularly EOS you’ve got
the canals I suppose and everything haven’t we, but EOS the ship canal
EOS the ship canal EOS Manchester ship canal EOS yeah, it’s mainly the
hi- and Trafford Park’s got some history hasn’t it EOS Trafford Park,
yeah, y- yeah, that’s right EOS mm EOS Trafford Park EOS the de
Trafford family, wasn’t it, and Trafford Park EOS yeah and the links
with Manchester really, I suppose EOS someone said erm, the Beatles
played at Chassen Park apparently EOS oh they did EOS yeah EOS yeah,
yeah, I- I think I’ve got a photograph, EOS really? EOS or it mentions
that in one of my local history books, you know the erm, Urmston I
don’t wheth- was it- was Chassen or it might’ve been was it not
Davyhulme park EOS I’m not sure EOS but it was somewhere EOS it was
one of them, was it? EOS mm EOS I think I’ve heard that before EOS oh,
I didn’t know that EOS I’m sure EOS it was interesting EOS yeah EOS
the Beatles played EOS so it must’ve been just before they became EOS
mm EOS really famous EOS mm EOS just when they were- when they were at
the Cavern EOS yeah EOS but they were just starting to be discovered,
and for some reason EOS yeah, and they’re just going round the towns
and EOS yeah, EOS doing little local gigs EOS they came here EOS ooh,
I didn’t know that EOS yeah what are local people like? EOS well I th-
I EOS I think they’re not too bad on the whole I think in Urmston and
Stretford but I think EOS I think people are just quite down to earth
really EOS yeah EOS yeah EOS yeah EOS they’re down to earth but I
think they- they tend to keep themselves to themselves, it’s not like
EOS no EOS in the old days where you’d know everybody, and like on our
street, they don’t make an effort of coming over and just sort of ga-
having a chat EOS they just sort of go in the houses and no EOS they
might say, ‘oh, hiya’ and that’s about it EOS that’s about it EOS yeah
EOS yeah, I mean we fi- I must admit, we find that here but I didn’t
know whether that was because it was a busy road and I think EOS mm
EOS yeah, it’s harder here isn’t it cos you’re on- on a corner and
it’s- EOS when you’re on a roa- yeah, cos obviously your neighbours
across the road feel sort of further away EOS yeah EOS quite apart
aren’t you, quite wide apart EOS and then we’re wide apart here, erm,
I think it was different at **anon** but whether that was because the
kiddies were younger EOS yeah EOS so when you’re walking to school,
and obviously the school was only a few doors away from EOS yeah, mm
EOS our house, so you did get to know lots of people EOS mm EOS erm,
so yeah, I think it was different then, did you find that when you
were on **anon** or has yours never really been like that anyway, EOS
no we were all quite friendly, and like you say, when- when the kids
were littler and I was on the street more tend to stop and have a
chat, but now it’s just you get out of your car and you go in your
house, just, do you know what I mean, I suppose it’s my fault anyway,
not making an effort to go and speak to them as well, but EOS are they
all- is it ma- is it the same people a lot of them? EOS yeah, a lot of
them are the same people EOS yeah, so perhaps they’ve all got to the
a- you know, the stage where the kiddies are grown up or they’ve moved
out and EOS oh, they’re all grandparents now EOS and they’re
grandparents, EOS yeah, the- yeah, most of them EOS so they’re the
same EOS yeah EOS cause you haven’t had many houses up for sale on
your road over the years have you, all the t- EOS not really, no EOS I
mean you get an odd one EOS mm EOS yeah, you get an odd one, it- the-
the one at the end’s been three times now up for sale, and new people
in it the very last one, on the other side EOS wow EOS yeah EOS that’s
had quite a few people in it, erm, oh and next door but three’s now
gone, that one that’s been up for sale for ages, that’s now sold and
there’s new people in their now EOS **anon**? EOS **anon** house EOS
yeah EOS yeah EOS saw the si- sold sign up there EOS so **anon** moved
out last weekend EOS mm EOS and so there’s, new family in there now
so, I don’t know what they’re going to be like EOS yeah EOS they look
like they’ve got a young girl called **anon**, and they’ve got a dog
EOS oh EOS he looks about our age I think EOS yeah EOS the guy, so EOS
yeah, so over the years really when you think there’s quite a lot of
houses on that road, EOS yeah EOS there’s not been- EOS but there’s
not many comings and goings really EOS no EOS at all EOS no EOS erm,
so, yeah, we all kinda do know each other but I think- I think next
door because they’re Irish and because they’re Irish and because
they’re Irish, they seem to take- talk a lot I think the Irish are
very friendly people EOS yeah, they are EOS they seem to do all the
ch- EOS with each other though? EOS yeah, yeah EOS do they tend to
sort of, just sort of stick together? EOS yeah, they just said- yeah-
they chat- you see them outside chatting EOS yeah EOS together more I
think EOS yeah EOS mm EOS but I can’t understand a word they say EOS
no EOS I just c- well I m- I mean I’ve lived next to **anon** for like
how many years, I mean for goodness sake, twent- twenty EOS oh God,
it’s about twenty EOS twenty odd years and still EOS yeah EOS if he
talks to me I really have to listen really carefully EOS I just cannot
understand his l- now, his wife **anon** plain as- plain as English
EOS I can understand her, she’s, you know, EOS yeah EOS she just talks
to me and- and there’s no problem but- but- but **anon**, no chance
EOS it’s like, ‘hang on a minute, hang on, hang on’ EOS yeah, just EOS
yeah EOS no, I really have to listen hard EOS yeah EOS and carefully
to when he’s talking to me EOS yeah no, I was tal- EOS and they’re
nice enough EOS I- I don’t know why but I think I’d like to live
somewhere that was more- a bit more community though, would you, or?
EOS yeah, there’s not a l- a very good community sort of spirit, we’re
all- th- the neighbours are friendly enough, but no- nobody ever EOS
yeah, they’re all- everyone’s nice, EOS mm EOS everyone’s nice round
here, EOS yeah EOS it’s not a problem EOS nobody ever does anything
EOS nobody’s horrible, EOS yeah EOS but there’s not you know, that
same community thing, sometimes I think w- w- would it be different if
you lived in a little village but then, would you perhaps be in each
others pockets too much, would it- not pockets, you know what I mean,
EOS yeah, yeah, everyb- EOS it- w- would it become a bit too intense,
EOS yeah EOS yeah EOS yeah, and people- EOS in that everybody would
know everybody’s business EOS mm EOS that’s right, yeah, it gets a bit
too much doesn’t it? EOS cause I’m readi- at the moment I’m reading,
erm, do you know- do you remember the film, ‘the Calendar Girls’ EOS
oh yeah EOS well, there’s erm, an- a bi- a sort of biography that was
written by one of the women EOS ooh EOS who actually she was the best
friend of the lady who lost her husband EOS oh EOS and they were- they
were raising the money for the hospital in his memory, and she’s the
one who’d written the book , erm, and obviously they live in the
dales- in the Yorkshire dales, in a small village, and reading it, you
know, you sort of think, ‘ooh, it sounds brilliant, the- they’re all
doing this together and they’re all doing that together’ EOS mm EOS
and you sort of think, ‘ooh, I’d like to live in a village’ EOS but
really would you like to live in a village EOS yeah EOS erm, I’d like
it from the community point of view, and I mentioned it to **anon**
the other day, in fact we were talking to **anon** about it EOS oh,
okay EOS and **anon** goes, ‘oh I just like it the way it is, it suits
me fi-’ EOS ‘it suits me fine’ EOS yeah, yeah EOS but I think there’s
something missing, really, I’d like a bit more EOS yeah, just a little
bit more, EOS just to get involved with something maybe in the li- on
the village green or EOS yeah EOS yeah, a bit of something, yeah EOS
yeah EOS cause I suppose we used to do all that when the kids were
younger didn’t we with like, the scouts and the cubs, we’d be EOS
yeah, yeah, I don’t- EOS fundraising and selling plants, and EOS yeah,
I don’t get meself involved with anything really EOS no, I don’t EOS I
suppose I should do really, that’s me being extremely lazy EOS yeah
EOS because you could still do that, you could still- EOS you could w-
I think we make the excuse, or I- I know I make the excuses cos I work
full time EOS mm EOS but you could, you could come home and just get
changed and go out and do something EOS and go out and do something,
yeah EOS but EOS but then it’s voluntary, and you think I’m committed,
and I have to keep doing it EOS mm EOS whereas when it was the kids,
you just said, ‘oh, I’ll help out’ and y- it was- it was EOS yeah, I
think- EOS it was your perogative whether you said yes or no EOS yeah,
so you could do it EOS you could do it EOS but you weren’t sort of
thinking, ‘I’ve gotta do it all the time’ EOS that’s right, yeah EOS
yeah EOS it wasn’t a twenty-four seven day in, sort of, week in, week
out thing EOS yeah cos **anon** with his, erm, thing with Age Concern,
he erm, EOS he has to really rush somedays, which, you know, it’s fine
when he’s not rushing but, EOS yeah EOS to get there, cos you’re
letting someone down, they’ve come in for a lesson EOS yeah EOS and
if, do you know, if he does that EOS so is it painting? EOS does he
still do that? EOS no, no, he erm EOS oh EOS he does erm, I can’t
remember what it’s called now, anyway, older generation who want to
learn how to use a computer EOS oh yeah, that’s right, I remember,
yeah, that’s nice EOS yeah EOS so you remember, you- you gave him a
reference, didn’t you? EOS I did, yeah, EOS so, EOS mmhmm EOS yeah EOS
I th- I didn’t realise he was still doing that though EOS yeah, he
just waits EOS oh right EOS he’s just finished with a lady who’s erm,
just been erm, learning to use a computer, and they get about six one
hour sessions I think it is, EOS ahh EOS it’s an hour, an hour a half
EOS oh, so is it one person he deals with at a time? EOS one person at
a time, yeah EOS so it’s for six weeks EOS it’s not a classroom full,
EOS oh, okay EOS it’s just one-to one EOS it’s a one-to-one for six
sort of weeks EOS and you’re sort of, for about six weeks to give them
sort of an overview, yeah EOS oh right, EOS yeah EOS so is it of the
internet EOS yeah EOS or just computers or? EOS it’s mainly most of
them, it’s what they want to use it for EOS mm EOS but it’s mainly,
erm, how to use the internet EOS yeah EOS cause that’s what most of
them want to do, some of them want to do a little bit of word
processing, using word EOS yeah EOS yeah EOS ahh EOS mm EOS and- and-
and some, like the lady who **anon** seen recently, erm, she was about
ninety EOS wow EOS but she’d previously used a keyboard, so that’s not
too bad EOS mm EOS she used to type EOS mm EOS so at least she’s
starting with something EOS yeah EOS whereas sometimes, somebody might
be a bit younger, but they’ve never even used a keyboard EOS that’s
right, yeah EOS cause not all men have, have they EOS no, oh no EOS
particularly of a, you know, an older generation might not have used a
keyboard
