

C:    Christine  [Right]
R:    Roger      [Left]
I:    Interviewer

C:    One, two, three, four, five.
I:    Okay that’s fine, after you Roger [anon].
R:    That’s the quickest one to five I’ve ever heard.
I:    [laughs]
R:    [laugh] (5.0)
I:    anyone? [laugh]
R:    What fun things are there to do in your community? What would you say
      about that? What do you like to do to have fun? You like to go for
      meals and
C:    yeah
R:    cinema, it’s a shame about the erm, [anon] cinema closing. Or is it?
C:    [laugh]
R:    [laugh] Who knows?
C:    Well, it was a-
R:    It was a bit of an old flea pit, wasn’t it?
C:    Yeah, there’s lots of restaurants in Urmston and there’s parks for
      the kids. And, well you’ve got the Trafford centre anyway, that’s not
      so far away, haven’t you?
R:    I suppose
C:    So I think everything you need really is there.
R:    I got a text today.
C:    You got the laserquest and all that business, haven’t you?
R:    mm
TIME [01.00]
C:    that you can go to.
R:    I was- I got a text today, from Orange. Inviting me to go out on
      Orange Wednesday.
C:    Did you?
R:    Mm I did. I didn’t reply to it.
I:    [laugh]
R:    [laugh] But you’re going this Wednesday, aren’t you? Is it this
      Wednesday or next Wednesday?
C:    No.
R:    Thought you were going with [anon]?
C:    No I’m going to me mum’s.
R:    Thought you were going to the cinema with [anon].
C:    no
R:    Must have been a- another woman I heard.
I:    [laugh] (7.0)
R:    so
C:    Right, Ok, so, talking about childhood, we both grew up only really
      five minutes walk away from each other. So the sort of things that we
      used to do are probably quite similar.
R:    mm
C:    Except, that, for the first- up until being the- six I lived erm in
      [anon] which was different. Because- different to you.
TIME [02.00]
C:    Because we were- there were so many of us really cos I was- come from
      a family of five children, that instead of playing out with friends we
      tended not really to- to want to go outside, cos there was always
      gonna be one of us to play with.
R:    mm
C:    So we’d always play in the back yard, it was always ball games.
      Against the wall generally. Things like, we used to have a game called
      ‘donkey’ which was throwing a ball against a wall and jumping over it.
      Which- [laugh] Which kept us amused for hours.
I:    [laugh]
C:    Easily amused.
R:    mm
C:    You know, rounders, there was always enough of us to have a team. So
      we didn’t really need other people, whereas I know that you were
      always out with lots of other friends.
R:    Yeah I- I tended to play more with sort of like, male friends. They
      weren’t- you didn’t really hang around with girls until you got a
      little bit older.
C:    [laugh]
R:    But er yeah and ours were like ball games. We were erm- nothing hi-
      tech as today, obviously but er do pretty much sport based games.
TIME [03.00]
C:    But you used to play making like go-karts and things like that,
      didn’t you?
R:    yeah and then we used to go swimming, things like that at the
      weekend. And- but majority like sport based games,
C:    yeah
R:    with l- not really involving anything erm that you needed to buy, you
      tended to try and make it, or if your ball- ball burst, you repaired
      it rather than just nipping out and buying another one, cos we didn’t
      have the money,
C:    yeah
R:    really just to replace something. Y- you tended to make do with what
      you had.
C:    And what was- can you think of anything that was very funny that
      happened to you when you were young?
I:    [laugh]
R:    [laugh] erm funny to who? To me or to anybody else?
I:    [laugh]
R:    [laugh] Well, I- we used to go fishing and er throw people in- in the
      water when you got a bit fed up and you couldn’t catch any fish.
C:    mmhmm
R:    Or erm- (2.0)
TIME [04.00]
R:    mmm, no just naughty games really, wasn’t it? Like knocking on doors
      was quite- and running away was quite common, or p-
C:    yeah see we never did anything like that but we used to get, erm- ma-
      mind you we were in trouble for it. We got mattress going down the
      stairs. Because we were always in- s- sort of in the house.
R:    mm
C:    Or outside, so we would always be messing about inside really.
R:    mm, well-
C:    Playing hide and seek, just things like that
R:    Well we tended to be outside more than anything obviously, and the
      summers always seemed better. Mind you saying that, we’re having a
      good one this year.
C:    yeah
R:    But we tended to be outside quite a lot. Which really got you out of
      the- got you out of the like, from under your mum and dad’s feet. And
      we used to erm go- not- well we used to go on our bikes, the roads
      were quieter then obviously in those days, we used to go on our bikes,
      down to the local river. Which was probably about six or seven miles
      away. And go swimming, most days in the summer. Erm, camping, we used
      to camp on like, on the local fields. Things like that quite a lot.
C:    Yeah.
TIME [05.00]
R:    when- erm, when the weather obviously allowed.
C:    Yeah right whereas we just used to play imaginative games as well,
      cos we were always dressed up, erm, [laugh] in me mum’s clothes
      generally.
I:    [laugh]
R:    With tights on [laugh] with tights on your head.
C:    [laugh] Because I always, always wanted long hair. And my mum used to
      always keep our hair very short. And one day somebody said to me-
      called me, ‘sonny.’ And from then on I always wanted to pretend I had
      long hair. So I used to wear tights on my head, with bows on the
      tights.
I:    [laugh]
R:    [laugh] And you wonder why I fell for you [laugh].
C:    [laugh]
I:    [laugh]
R:    Most- most people wonder why I fell for you.
I:    [laugh]
C:    Did you ever get hurt while playing when you were a kid?
R:    Oh yes used to fall out of trees quite often, cos we did a lot of
      climbing based games and chasing each other around.
TIME [06.00]
R:    So we’re forever falling, cuts and scrapes.
C:    right
R:    Erm- football injuries, cricket injuries (1.5) [laugh]
C:    That it?
R:    Yeah but tree- falling out of trees was quite a common injury.
C:    Once I- I broke- broke my arm. And that was- well it wasn’t broke
      actually it was erm, sort of badly bruised but it was like a crack or
      something, I don’t know in the bone. But it wasn’t particularly- it
      wasn’t definitely broken. But anyway it was because me and [anon] my
      sister were waiting for my other sister [anon] to come out of school.
      And there was a moat running round the side- it- well it was called
      the moat, erm, out- outside of the school. Erm I think it was all to
      do really with- that they were knocking down a lot of erm houses near
      where we lived. Erm, erm and there was like bricks and things
      everywhere. And it was just like a trench, I think that was what it
      was. But we used to call it the moat. And of course I was like trying
      to walk along the side of it and I fell in [laugh]
I:    [laugh]
R:    [laugh]
C:    And erm- and erm [anon] had to come and get me out.
TIME [07.00]
R:    mm
C:    Take me to erm, to hospital.
R:    Also we used to fall off a lot of words.
C:    So that was the worst thing that happened to me.
R:    It always seemed more fun to walk along the walls than it did the
      pavement. So-.
C:    Yeah I mean, one of the dangerous things that we used to do, I mean
      thinking about it now was going into these houses, cos they were
      derelict houses. So they were only like half standing. And there’s p-
      some houses actually had a staircase that you would still be able to
      walk up, even though there was no floor.
R:    No floor above, yeah.
C:    Or half a floor at the top.
R:    mm
C:    And on the way home from school sometimes we would always go in these
      houses, erm, and sort of try and have a bit of an, you know,
      investigate what’s going on.
R:    mm.
C:    But really when I think about it, it’s just so dangerous.
R:    Oh yeah, yeah we- we used to make er bonfires round bonfire night
      obviously but we used to make dens in those and they were quite big
      and dangerous cos erm the fire brigade generally used to come and pull
      half the- the timber that you’d collected off, they wouldn’t let you
      build it as big as it was.
TIME [08.00]
R:    And erm as soon as they left, we used to put it all back on again.
I:    [laugh]
R:    And then make dens inside them and things like that. And so it w- it
      was quite dangerous times really, compared to what the kids seem to
      get up to today.
C:    But I didn’t know anybody who- even though- I mean we all used to
      play in these- erm these houses all on- the- the Crofts, they used to
      be called. And that would be like where a house was completely
      demolished.
R:    mm
C:    And so all’s what was left was like bricks on the floor, and glass
      and things. Erm but I mean everybody used to cut across crofts. Adults
      used to, you know it wasn’t just the kids.
R:    mm
C:    And there used to be like pass- path- pathways that went through
      because it was a shortcut to wherever you lived.
R:    mm
C:    Erm and I fell over there ones and I got a scar where I actually fell
      on some glass.
R:    mm
C:    but erm that’s how it was and then everybody moved to sort of like,
      certain areas in Manchester. And it just so happened that [anon], a
      lot of the community was moved to [anon], and that was when we moved-
      moved on.
TIME [09.00]
C:    To [anon] which was round the corner from where you are.
R:    Mm to where I was yeah.
C:    But some were moved to- I think there’s Wythenshawe, wasn’t it?
R:    Yeah.
C:    And erm so there was a big new estate right up in Northern
      Manchester, it was a Hattersley. And-.
R:    Yeah that’s them like on-.
C:    Which was absolutely- it was lovely when it was very first done.
R:    It was very rural, it still is, rural area.
C:    But now it’s s- it’s just so rough up there, isn’t it? The estate
R:    The estate’s rough yeah it’s-.
C:    And that was where- wasn’t that where Myra Hindley was and Ian Brady?
R:    But that was in the early sixties.
C:    So that would have been earlier.
R:    mm, it was- yeah,
C:    Yeah, because I’m talking about sixt- sixty eight,
R:    yeah
C:    something like that.
R:    I think Myra Hindley was early-
C:    Sixty nine.
R:    early- earlier than that.
C:    Right.
R:    But er yeah.
C:    So there was er- so that- can you remember a good story that your
      parents or grandparents used to tell you? Eh, well my- well my mum
      [laugh] still telling stories now.
I:    [laugh]
R:    [laugh]
C:    [laugh] That’s just to make things- she likes to embroider things.
R:    Mm.
C:    the truth
TIME [10.00]
R:    Ah me mum still-
C:    but tells a good yarn
R:    yeah
C:    I remember my mum te- still tells the story of when she went back to
      Belfast and she was erm- during the war and they were moved from
      Manchester back over to Belfast cos of the bombing in Manchester and
      she thought it was really exciting when you were given a- a Mae West
      and a whistle, in case the submarines sank your-your ship and she-
C:    [laugh]
I:    [laugh]
R:    she kind of couldn’t wait for it to erm, explode, so she could have a
      go of her whistle and watch the light come on as she hit the water.
C:    Yeah I used to like stories that me mum told me because me mum is-
      was really quite a naughty girl, and erm- but she used to make me
      laugh. Because she was tell- cos her dad was erm, a Welsh Baptist
      preacher. And she used to sit in the back, in the pew that was for the
      family whittling her name in the wood [laugh].
R:    [laugh]
C:    Which isn’t a good thing, and if he only knew, he’d have gone
      absolutely mad.
R:    That’s not a very religious thing, mm
C:    So that’s funny.
TIME [11.00]
R:    But holidays were always s- we always seemed to er- take holidays to
      North Wales, usually erm, in the early days to er a bungalow, which
      was- I can still remember the smell now, there were always damp musty
      smells. Me mum always tried to convince me dad that they had to go in
      a caravan, would be better because they were more modern. But he- he
      wouldn’t have it cos he always said that they were like being in a tin
      can, if it rained. And eventually she got him to go in one and he
      never went in a bungalow again, cos he realised how good they were.
      But it was always Wales, we didn’t have foreign holidays at all. It
      was always North Wales.
C:    No, whereas we didn’t really- me- cos me dad died when er I was only
      two, and so me mum didn’t have a lot of money, she went to work, back
      to work. And so in school holidays, we used to get sent to erm my
      Gran’s house, who lived in Wales, or erm, I used to go to an Auntie’s
      who lived in erm well first of all Wales and then on to Blackpool. Erm
      so we would always be together. And we used to just go on the beach.
TIME [12.00]
C:    All of us, or- go on the mountains and just run around and just go
      wild really. [anon] gran used to give us a good breakfast and say she
      didn’t want to see us back again till teatime. And we didn;t want to
      go back till tea.
R:    mm
C:    So that was always good times. Erm (0.5) that’s-
R:    I spent most of my teenage erm, holidays on- on- on the beach, pretty
      much on me own. Me- me dad didn’t like the beach. Me mum used to come
      for a walk but I used to sort of like- we used to play games erm but
      it was pretty much- I used to wander up and down the beach and erm,
      throwing stones at this that and the other and er
I:    [laugh]
R:    whiling the hours away that way. But er- didn’t really go in the- in
      the water much. It was- it was too cold. But erm I remember them, erm,
      th- they were good holidays. I always- I always really enjoyed them
      and it was nice to spend time together. With er- we always used to buy
      a kite on the way down. That’s something, erm, me dad and I always did
      together.
TIME [13.00]
R:    was kept flying kites. Usually from the petrol station on- [laugh]
I:    [laugh]
C:    [laugh]
R:    on the way down but they were good. (5.0) And what was your least
      favourite teacher? (3.5) I had a least favourite teacher. [anon]
      woodwork teacher, horrible man. He was erm, a bully really. Er when
      you look back at it he was- it was quite scandalous the things he used
      to do. Erm but- not a good teacher. Favourite teacher, [anon] from
      [anon], who was really good teacher, went on to become headmistress at
      a local school years later. You had some weird and wonderful teachers
      didn’t you? [laugh]
C:    I don’t remember primary school them being weird and wonderful. They
      were actually quite sweet. There was one who was a bit strange called
      [anon], who used to have a double row of teeth at the bottom. Erm like
      a sheep.
R:    [laugh]
C:    I don’t really know why but she did.
TIME [14.00]
C:    erm, she was very scary, real old-school erm- little glasses on the
      end of her nose. She looked like something like a caricature of erm a
      little old fashioned teacher, with a bun, erm, but apart form that I-
      I think the primary school was- they were really quite sweet but at
      secondary school they- well most of them were nuns. Erm cos I went to
      [anon], so, erm, and I think the- I still think it’s quite a strange
      thing to just you know, lock yourself away as a woman,
R:    base education on-
C:    and just become a teacher, because I don’t really think that erm they
      would know much about life. And they- they- even though they would
      know their subject, I think sometimes they were at a loss to deal with
      teenage girls, erm
R:    mm
C:    and any problems that anybody might have.
R:    mm
C:    You know so erm, I think sometimes the- they weren’t very
      sympathetic.
TIME [15.00]
C:    Or they didn’t really have a lot to say other than their subjects.
      Erm (2.0) so I thought that was quite strange. And the- the, erm, head
      teacher was a nun and the deputy head teacher was a nun and the deputy
      head teacher, [anon] used to just send fear into everybody’s hearts.
      And erm- just used to- but erm the punishments weren’t ever shouting
      at, it was all to do with erm- it was all to do with church.
R:    Mm, ours was-.
C:    I used to have to go and pray for forgiveness quite a few times.
R:    [laugh]
C:    [laugh]
R:    Well ours were always physical, they weren’t- erm, and obviously the
      cane and the slipper were allowed in school when I was there. So if
      you did something quite menial, or didn’t get your homework in on time
      or something like that, you were hit with the slipper. Which is like
      usually a plimsoll or er a gym-shoe. But some teachers gave them
      names, like erm- [anon] called his ‘Oscar.’
TIME [16.00]
R:    And he’d like removed everything apart from the floppy sole, and he
      used to send people for er- he’d hit you say six times with that just
      in case you know, er, you’d- you hadn’t done something right. But if
      you were really, really in trouble, then you had to go and see [anon],
      he was the head teacher, we used to call him [anon], cos of his
      surname. But he used to have canes of various shapes and sizes. Like
      he would actually ask you to hold your hand out and- well he would erm-
       give you six of the best, as he called it and it was pretty brutal
      really. When you think back, I certainly wouldn’t allow my kids to be-
      to be hit by a- a teacher. But that was the way life was.
C:    What sorts of things did you like at school?
R:    erm
C:    To do, extra activities.
R:    Well I used to liked sports, used to like playing football in a team,
      used to play football for the football team, obviously, for the school
      football team. Erm badminton.
TIME [17.00]
R:    Used to pl- like playing that. Erm but I wasn’t- I used to join the
      bo- like the book clubs and history club and things like that just so
      that you could get first in the line at lunch. So you could get your
      dinner before everybody else
C:    [laugh]
R:    and then pretty much not go to the club but at least you’d- you’d got
      something from it [laugh].
I:    [laugh]
R:    [inc]
C:    I used to like erm, hockey, I was erm quite sort of feisty I was very-
       I was quite little really erm for a long time and- but I was quite
      fast
R:    mm
C:    and I used to just love going whooshing up and down the fields, cos
      it was the one thing that I actually thought that I was pretty good
      at. I don’t know if I was good but I used to feel I was good at it,
      [laugh] and erm- I don’t think they expected- perhaps they didn’t see
      me coming, I don’t know but I used to manage to get a few goals in. So
      it was okay. And I loved drama, I liked music. I still like music now,
      I still like music and I still like drama.
TIME [18.00]
C:    And I just like to- I like to- to escape from er- it w- it was all a
      bit humdrum erm and I used to like all the colours and I used to get
      involved in the lighting and things like that. And I thought that was
      erm, that was interesting.
R:    Well I always got a good part in the school play. I was the pied
      piper of Hamblyn, although I couldn’t play a recorder
I:    [laugh]
R:    and I had to pretend I was playing a recorder whilst all these er
      rats were running behind me. And I played a tree, [laugh]
I:    [laugh]
R:    I played a tree in one pl- oh no sorry it wasn’t a tree, I was a
      dormouse in one play, which had to sit underneath a tree. And this
      tree was actually [anon]. Because he was like the tallest guy in the
      class. So he- he basically had to stand there for twenty minutes with
      his arms out. While I was curled up asleep below. And me mum said I
      was fantastic,
I;    [laugh]
C:    [laugh]
R:    told everybody, but no, I mean I remember the school plays, I- i
      generally got quite a decent part in that or a part with- at least
      just a speech part or rather than er just standing there dressed as a
      donkey or something.
TIME [19.00]
C:     No I remember our drama teacher, [anon] who was my absolute
      favourite teacher. And the reason why I liked her was because she just-
       she was all perfume and scarves, and erm curly hair, and she was
      very, very pretty, and was very, very loud, and used to laugh like mad
      at everything people said. But erm she was lovely and she was the one
      who said that I should really go to some sort of drama school. And
      that- but of course me mum looked into it and she didn’t have the
      money to send me. So she looked- she wrote a letter to the council to
      see if they would give y- me some sort of grant
R:    mm
C:    but nothing ever came of it. So that-
R:    mm
C:    you know I- I think I always felt a bit let down by that, cos I felt
      that that was the way that I would have liked to have gone.
R:    mm
C:    And I think it’s quite nice in a way that erm my niece is- [anon] is
      erm going in that direction.
TIME [20.00]
R:    Mm.
C:    It’s almost like sort of next step,
R:    Yeah.
C:    so- (7.0)
R:    Do you remember moving from [anon]?
C:    Yeah I do, er don’t remember- there’s- it’s- it’s sort of snatches
      really that I remember of [anon] really. Erm but I remember being very
      excited when we came to [anon]. And we came to see the house for the
      first time and it was dark, it must been in the winter, because it was
      sort of-
R:    Is this [anon] yeah?
C:    yeah because it was just sort of after tea time,
C:    and it was dark. And we’d only ever had a back yard. And then we had
      the entry that ran down the side of the house and that was where we
      used to play. There was nothing wrong with it, it was just you know.
R:    mm
C:    That was just where we used to play outside. And erm it had this huge
      big garden. And the garden was all a bit sort of overgrown and things
      and er I went out, and even though it was dark I just wanted to- and
      as I was walking along the grass I was doing steps to see how many
      steps it would take me to get to the fence.
TIME [21.00]
R:    mm
C:    And it just seemed like forever. Was just huge
R:    mm
C:    erm, and I was really excited because erm me mum said she’d get me a-
      a swing, erm, which me uncle made cos everything was made, and er- he
      made me this swing, that I used to spend hours on. So I just thought
      it was just huge, huge great big house, when in actual fact it wasn’t,
      it’s just that that’s how it felt.
R:    mm, it’s like we moved erm, when I was s- seven and yeah that was the
      same sort of thing- it was- it was a bigger house that we moved to,
      erm with three bedrooms whereas the previous house only had two. Erm
      but again the garden was a big thing ocs it was quite a large garden.
      Erm I remember me dad working on it for months when we first moved in.
      Although it was like awesome when we moved in. I remember like the
      winter, erm and after the winter he was really out there all the time
      and we used to help him get er soil.
TIME [22.00]
R:    From the fields at the back, and put it in wheelbarrows and used to
      give us like- can’t remember how much it was now but it wasn’t a lot.
      And er we used to fill the wheelbarrow and then bring it and tip it in
      the back garden. Cos it was- it was a lot lower than- than he thought
      it should have been so er we must’ve put tons in there over the years.
      But er- he was keen gardener my dad. He liked his garden didn’t he?
C:    mm, yeah he did.
R:    mm
C:    And er the other thing that erm my uncle made me was erm, a wendy
      house in the back garden, erm which I really, really liked. And I used
      to have little teacups and things like that. So basically then- but as
      I got older erm that was when the first time really that I started
      actually going- playing outside and going to see friends.
R:    mm
C:    Cos I must’ve been then- well when I was allowed t- to play out,
      maybe about twelve.
R:    mm
C:          So I never had it when I was younger cos that was just when we
      were playing with
R:    yeah
C:    everybody who was in the house.
TIME [23.00]
C:    Erm but then we used to sort of g- go out then because it was like
      four years between me and my next sister. So that would mean that if I
      was about eleven, [anon] was about fifteen, and she was obviously
R:    looking after-
C:    not then wanting to play
R:    mm
C:    hide and seek with me. So er- so that’s when we first started going
      out.
R:    mm, also there’s quite a lot-
C:    Roller skates and things like that.
R:    There’s quite a lot of kids in that area though wasn’t there? The-
C:    yeah
R:    Everybody seemed to have- you know, every house pretty much had kids.
      There was a few like old dears whose maybe kids had grown up and gone.
      But there was a lot of kids in the area at the time.
C:    But I think that’s probably because a lot of people had moved in as
      families.
R:    Yeah from different-.
C:    Because to move in- to get a council house you generally had
      children, didn’t you?
R:    Yeah, yeah
C:    Otherwise you might have been moved into a flat.
R:    Yeah that’s quite true yeah.
C:    So I think it’s when they were moving whole communities that that’s
      where we were all- sort of seemed to be sort of similar age groups
      really.
R:    Yeah.
C:    The families seemed to have children sim- similar ages.
R:    mm, everybody’s of a similar erm- like pay-scale as well, weren’t
      they?
C:    Background, yeah.
R:    Everybody was like working- you know working class.
TIME [24.00]
R:    erm, Dads all worked in Trafford Park at the time, or the majority
      didn’t they? There was no- erm you know,
C:    yeah
R:    the odd person had a car. Which I remember, I must have been about
      ten or so like, when we- when- when me dad got a car.
C:    Yeah.
R:    Used to have a motorbike and he had a canal barge
I:    [laugh]
C:    yeah
R:    which he- him and his friend worked on. I suppose to get a little bit
      more money, when I think back. I know he- he always fancied having a
      canal barge that he could you know maybe go on holiday and weekends,
      but he’s- he tended to spend you know, one day of the weekend erm
      working on this boat that I never actually saw, although I know it was
      called [anon]. I think I saw it once actually, but I never saw it
      float. It was always in dry dock and er- but I suppose y- you get to
      meet the other people with boats and what have you, we actually went
      on a few boats, for day trips up and down the Bridgewater canal. And
      it was- it was nice community, it was really- everybody- and some had
      like made sandwiches and there was always big picnics and this that
      and the other and other kids to play with, so that was good fun, it
      was good times.
C:    mm
R:    Again the sun always seemed to be shining.
TIME [25.00]
C:    And it seems funny that- I mean the community- I mean [anon], what
      you looking at, say about four miles away?
R:    From- from [anon]?
C:    Yeah.
R:    Yeah, yeah.
C:    yeah, and the whole- because whole communities moved at once, some of
      our neighbours that were actually on our street- cos it was a bit of a-
       quite a large Irish community, wasn’t it in [anon]?
R:    I didn’t really know a lot about [anon], to be honest.
C:    It was erm- and some of our neighbours, who lived there, actually
      still live- you know, in [anon] now.
R:    mm
C:    Sort of round the corner cos we all sort of moved en masse.
R:    mm
C:    So erm- it seems funny that although my mum has moved away, you know
      she went from [anon] to [anon] and then on- on from there. That when
      she comes back to this area, that she’s still bumping into old
      neighbours.
R:    Yeah.
C:    Original neighbours from [anon].
R:    Mm, I think a lot of people were happy when they moved because, they
      did- like I was saying before, they did get a garden, which they
      didn’t have before. And there did seem to be a bit more space, and-.
TIME [26.00]
C:    and also- it was rubbish when you- when you think about it, you were
      actually living in rubble. Well you weren’t your house was in the
      middle maybe of -
R:    Yeah.
C:    And then the next road had been flattened.
R:    mm
C:    So you know it wasn’t good conditions t- to live in.
R:    No.
C:    So- and me mum used to say and I know this wasn’t very nice and I
      don’t remember it as a- as a child, but my mum used to say that there
      was lots of erm mice
R:    Mm,
C:    erm and I suppose that maybe there would be.
R:    I would imagine yeah, mm
C:    So- (6.0) what do you think- er have changed or what important
      changes have taken place in our town? Well I suppose thinking about
      it, one of the major changes is the Trafford centre. Isn’t it?
R:    Yeah, course it is, yeah
C:    erm, I actually think
R:    it’s probably one of the biggest shopping centres in Europe isn’t it?
C:    Yeah, I mean really it’s- I- and I mean a lot of people don’t like
      it, I don’t really know why because I just think it’s erm- it’s
      brought a lot of work into the area.
TIME [27.00]
R:    mmhmm.
C:    Erm people are coming in, so you’ve got money that’s coming in- into
      it.
R:    It’s open late [inc]-
C:    It’s er ideal for- for us,
R:    mm
C:    I mean I just love the fact that it’s round the corner.
R:    Mm, that’s right.
C:    Er you’ve got the pictures, you’ve got the restaurants,
R:    mm
C:    so I can’t really see a problem with it at all.
R:    No I mean when they built like the shopping centre at Stretford, the
      Stretford Precinct, that’s totally different. People- when it was
      first built it was so- people thought it was fantastic, cos you didn’t
      get wet when you were shopping, if it was raining you could still
      wander from shop to shop.
C:    Yeah.
R:    Once you were inside there, you were- you know, you were dry and erm-
      but it seemed to like rip the heart out of the centre of Stretford.
      Because when it closed, it was like a huge area that you couldn’t get
      into, so there was no-
C:    yeah
R:    whereas if there was- in the old community, there was pubs and- and-
      not so much restaurants cos I don’t think they had like restaurants in
      those- in our early days, did they, your Mum and Dad didn’t tend to go
      out for a meal most weekends.
C:    No, no.
TIME [28.00]
R:    Cos they didn’t have the money but er it just seemed to be like a big
      void in the centre of the town that was only used from nine ‘til six
      and then er and then closed. But I think the Trafford centre’s
      different because it does involve cinemas and- yeah.
C:    Lots of different- yeah.
R:    Things that you can do and it’s not just a shopping centre it’s- it
      is a place that-you know, y- you can virtually spend all day there.
      Couldn’t you?
C:    Oh God, I did on Saturday. [laugh].
I:    [laugh]
R:    [laugh] Yeah and most- most other Saturdays [laugh] But yeah that-
      that has been a big change and erm the renovation of the centre of
      Urmston, I think that’s for the- for the good as well.
C:    yeah I do too.
R:    Er- and I think they’ve learnt by mistakes they’ve done in previous
      place- like Sale. When they did the centre of Sale and- and they
      rejuvenated that, the parking’s just a nightmare, whereas what they’ve
      done in Urmston I think’s really good. I’ve not personally struggled
      to get in and out where- you know, or find a parking space whereas I
      know people in Sale, you can drive round for like three quarters of an
      hour looking for somewhere to park.
C:    Right.
R:    And er with it being free parking as well.
TIME [29.00]
R:    Whereas some- some of these places, like Altrincham, pretty much
      charge to park, don’t they?
C:    Yeah I mean I know it’s not a finished thing yet but one of the- it-
      it’s- it’s good that they’re keeping the- the small shops as well.
R:    Yeah.
C:    Because like- well we’ve got photographs of I don’t know, what a
      hundred years ago?
R:    Yeah just turn of the century yeah.
C:    And it doesn’t- really there’s parts of it that you would still
      recognise.
R:    well, yeah you can still see which shop- yeah.
C:    As being Urmston now and I think that’s important. Because it- it’s
      part of the history of the time
R:    mm, but also like I was saying before, you can’t close it off,
      because it’s on the street and you know, where there’s coff- coffee
      you know, erm, lounges and restaurants then- although they’re not
      undercover, pe- I don’t think people are that interested any more so
      it still is a town.
C:    yeah
R:    Whereas I think all these places that they put precincts, they kind
      of like-
C:    Yeah, but I think there is a community in Urmston. Erm it think that
      they’ve got some good schools, which makes people stay in the same
      place.
R:    mmhmm.
TIME [30.00]
C:    Erm they’ve got good secondary schools so again, you’re moving from
      infant, junior to secondary school
R:    mmhmm
C:    without the need to move, that some people do have to move around for


R:    mmhmm
C:    good education for their children, whereas we’re lucky enough to have
      that here.
R:    yeah
C:    Erm and so that sort of makes a communities
R:    mm
C:    spirits carry on. Erm local events, such as that fiesta, Urmston
      fiesta [laughs] but even so, it’s still good.
R:    Summer fiesta.
C:    Summer fiesta.
R:    Yeah it’s the start of something that you would hope,
C:    erm-
R:    in years to come will get bigger and bigger and
C:    yeah
R:    more and more people take part, so it- yeah I think it’s a good idea.
      Definitely.
C:    Wasn’t there an Urmston carnival?
I:    mm
C:    So you see, it’s things like that, so they are still trying
R:    mm
C:    and of course, you’ve got the round table, you’ve got the rotary.
R:    Mm.
C:    Is it the round table or the rotary club, I think it’s probably the
      same thing actually.
R:    at Christmas
C:    Erm, again that’s based in Urmston.
R:    mm
C:    So you’ve got that going on as well.
R:    mm
C:    That, you now people going round. You’ve got lots of social clubs as
      well. I mean I know we’ve not really- we don’t really go to them.
TIME [31.00]
C:    But you’ve got like the labour club. Which is the one up the road?
      [anon] I don’t know if that’s labour or what.
R:    That’s an ex-servicemen’s club. It’s very popular, yeah.
C:    Right. Okay but you’ve got the conservative club up here,
R:    mmhmm
C:    you’ve got the one next to Urmston grammar.
R:    You’ve got the new conservative club, yeah, yeah.
C:    So there’s a few places to go. But it’s- it’s funny to think that erm-
       in Altrincham people seem to know Urmston. People come in to Urmston
      to use the- you know to go to the restaurants.
R:    mm
C:    So even though it’s a teeny tiny place, it’s almost- it’s still a
      place to come to.
R:    Yeah.
C:    Which is er quite unique I would say
R:    Mm.
C:    really
R:    Yeah it’s- I think it’s a shame like the cinema couldn’t have sort of
      like made it through [dar] recession and what have you, but I just
      think people- it needed so much money spending on it, didn’t it? But
      it- it seems to be thriving as like a dance-.
C:    and you wonder really whether any local cinemas are going to stay.
R:    Yeah there’s not very many left at all.
C:    Cos there’s that many big cinemas now, with all the different.
R:    mm
TIME [32.00]
C:    You know erm facilities really to be able to have so many films on at
      once, that it’s not likely.
R:    Yeah some of them in the past, you remember like [anon] in erm-.
C:    The what, [anon]? [laugh]
R:    [anon], that was in [anon]. That was where I was first gonna take you
      to see James Dean
I:    [laugh]
R:    and then- and then they pulled it, because they used to do erm say
      like a James Dean series or- and they’d- they’d- they’d show his
      films, or then they’d show such and such a thing and it was a bit more
      erm- not just like run-of-the-mill blockbuster films and just next one
      and the next one and the next one. They tended to do like series. They
      did- they did a erm, church in Chorlton’s started doing it recently,
      you know the big church near erm- the catholic church where-
C:    [anon]?
R:    Is it [anon]? Yeah, on the f- the one on the fork?
C:    mm
R:    Yeah the one on the right hand side, that does- go past that and
      it’ll have like- seems crazy sometimes, but you have like gangster
      series, and it’ll be showing all the ‘Godfathers.’
TIME [33.00]
R:    And it’s- it’s like a- it- it- because it’s in- in the church it-
      it’s not run by the church but they obviously use like the church
      hall.
C:    Yeah.
R:    But there’s always big adverts saying like ‘gang’- all Al Capone
      films and this that and the other, all [inc].
C:    Yes well they’ve got something like that in Manchester haven’t they?
R:    On the corner h- the what’s it called?
C:    The corner house.
R:    The c- the corner house.
I:    yeah, that’s right
C:    yeah
R:    Yeah where they- rather than just showing mainstream, run-of-the-mill
      blockbusters, they er yeah try something different.
C:    Yeah.
R:    But it keeps them op- keeps them going and- and not everybody wants
      to see Bruce Willis in his vest. [laugh] Which I believe he’s brought
      out a new aftershave. What we were saying, why would you want to smell
      like Bruce Willis looks?
I:    [laugh]
C:    In his sweaty vest.
R:    [laugh] do you know what I mean? In his sweaty vest, yeah. Would you
      [inc]? (7.0) How many brothers and sisters do you have? How long have
      you got? [laugh]
I:    [laugh]
TIME [34.00]
C:    Well, no I’ve got four haven’t I? I’ve got one brother and three
      sisters. And did we get along when we were kids? Generally, yeah (1.5)
      [anon]
R:    I think you had to
C:    Yeah I think we did. Erm [anon] was- we used to do as we were told
      with [anon] cos he was always the babysitter, although he wasn’t the
      eldest, erm he was the second eldest. But even [anon] who is the
      eldest used to do as she was told from him. So- but apart from that-
      but he was never horrible, he just used to erm- if we didn’t get the
      number right on united’s football team, on the- [laugh].
R:    He used to rap your knuckles.
C:    He used to shout [laugh]. Erm I used to really look forward to
      Saturday nights because that was when me mum and me uncle use to go
      out. They used to go to bingo. And er they used to- that was when we
      used to get our spends. So we always used to get some sweets.
TIME [35.00]
C:    and watch whatever we liked on the tv. And then we always used- they
      used to come in about ten o’clock and although I was probably too
      young then, I used to sort of pretend I used to join in but I don’t
      really remember it so I’m sure I was up in bed before then. Erm but
      they used to always scuttle up to bed about ten minutes before they
      were due home,
R:    mm
C:    so,
R:    that was the usual way, well I- I have two sisters. One three years-
      three years er older and one seven years younger so I think- I don’t
      think there was much planning in erm- in our [anon] being born.
      Probably a mistake [laugh]
I:    [laugh]
R:    but er yeah I- I tended to let them do the girly things and I did the
      er- did the lad’s things. So I’ve never been really that close to
      them, but-
C:    Do you think you were spoilt because you were the only boy?
I:    [laugh]
R:    why would I- Spoiled? No not at all, far from it!
C:    [laugh]
I:    [laugh]
R:    [laugh] I’d still have to get up and light the fire on a Sunday, me
      sisters didn’t. But they used to do the erm- help my mum I suppose
      more with the cooking and-.
TIME [36.00]
C:    Did you have to help out around the house?
R:    Erm, no not really I used to er-.
C:    Cos you were spoilt [laugh]
I:    [laugh]
R:    I wasn’t spoilt at all! I- I used to make my own bed [laugh]. But I
      didn’t change the sheets, I think that me mum did that. Probably every
      three or four months, whether they needed changing or not. But er no I
      didn’t do a lot of housework really, don’t think but I use to help me
      dad in the garden. Or I’d be sent off to the shops for you know,
      running errands. So it’s not like- I didn’t get away with anything,
      just different things.
C:    No we used to- we used to have jobs. But we didn’t think- it wasn’t
      sort of unfair. Erm mine wasn’t much of a job, cos I was the little
      one. So mine was to put the milk bottles out after they’d been washed.
R:    Good God, that’s not-.
C:    I know, it wasn’t difficult. But once-.
R:    No did you have to do that every day?
C:    Well once I got into trouble because I went to take the milk bottles
      out and this was about seven o’clock after dinner. And erm I was only
      little.
TIME [37.00]
C:    And I don’t know what- I think I’ve heard something, some music or
      something like that. And decided to go walking to see what the music
      was. Only I just actually got lost. I was only little and erm I don’t
      remember much about it. I just remember walking and walking and
      walking. And then finally being picked up by the police. And the
      police brought me home.
R:    mm
C:    And I can remember sitting in the police station sitting on top of a
      counter, a big counter erm eating smarties. And I thought it was
      fantastic. And then I came home in a police car.
R:    Bet you do it every other week then. No I’ve never been in a police
      car.
C:    But I don’t really remember- I think I was- must’ve been very young
      I’m sure I must’ve only been about four or five. So even little,
      really young, I still had a job to do which was the milk bottles
      [laugh]
R:    mm
C:    But even after that, we just used to share it really. Because me mum
      used to work so our only other job were things like we always used to
      erm- I used to vac- we didn’t used to have a vac, we used to have erm,
      what are they called?
TIME [38.00]
R:    A Ewbank.
C:    Ewbank.
R:    yeah
C:    And the Ewbank- I used to have a- my job was to do that every night,
      which was just the rugs really.
R:    mm
C     And erm [anon] job was to- oh no that was [anon] job was to peel the
      spuds. I can’t remember what- I’m sure [anon] used to get off scot-
      free. No, I’m sure she didn’t, but anyway. So that was er- we all had
      a job each. And it was generally to make the tea
R:    mm
C:    for when me mum came home. And then me mum used to finish it off
      though.
R:    Yeah my mum used to work, and erm, and me dad used to work shifts. So
      if he was home first he pretty much just sat there and waited for me
      mum to come home.
C:    Yeah.
R:    But then years later he changed, I don’t know- became a modern man.
I:    [laugh]
R:    And actually half got- my mum would half get the tea ready before she
      went and he- he’d put the tea on knowing- cos she was always home at
      the same time cos she only worked across the road.
I:    mmhmm
R:    Erm knowing that she’d be home at six, me dad would start tea at like
      twenty to six, or so and- and it was virtually ready when me mum came
      home,
C:    mm
R:    and then she would er serve it up.
TIME [39.00]
C:    I mean the thing is, it’s- it’s qu- you know like everyone now is
      like sort of, if they’ve got a big family it’s all a big deal of how
      they gonna feed them and they need to be on all sorts of benefits. But
      really, my mum used to just do big, cheap, nutritious meals
R:    mm
C:    that would put some people to shame I think now.
R:    mm
C:    You know I mean great big- er we always used to have like a proper
      meat and veg or erm if we were gonna have fish it was  that smoked
      finny haddock, cos it’s cheap.
R:    mm
C:    Or she used to make great big stews always- it always used to be
      something like a casserole,
R:    mm
C:    or something like that. Or the one thing that I used to love that she
      did was er mince beef and onion pie.
R:    mm
C:    And she used to do this huge great big thing and then we used to have
      that with new potatoes that came from a tin, which is funny. Don’t
      know why she used to do that. But I think they must have been cheap.
R:    mm
C:    But they were like little bullets, they were horrible.
R:    Yeah I re- I remember the things you mean. But I don’t think- we
      didn’t have them much.
TIME [40.00]
C:    erm, yeah but we always used to have this big minced beef and onion
      pie, which was just lovely.
R:    mm
C:    so, er I think she did these ti- those tinned potatoes
R:    yeah food you didn’t have so much choice.
C:    as like a treat really.
R:    Mm.
C:    But I d- never used to like them.
R:    You used to get those people who used to buy er- pies in a tin.
I:    [laugh]
C:    [laugh]
R:    You think- they used to just steam them didn’t they? We never had
      them cos they were from-.
C:    No we didn’t cos there were too many of us so-
R:    yeah, but-
C:    we would’ve had to have all these tins.
R:    some people would have them, and they were made by goblin. Goblin
      foods.
C:    [laugh]
T:    And you basically you just I think you pricked a hole in it and then
      put it in a pan of boiling water.
C:    I remember when erm Vesta curries first came in.
R:    Oh yeah, that was-.
C:    And er [anon] and [anon] used to have them cos it was like really
      hip.
R:    mm
C:    And er I used to just- the smell of curry was really quite different.


R:    Can you imagine my dad?
C:    And I used to think he was so modern, [anon], you know, really hippy
      having this curry.
R:    Mm, We used to buy them but my dad used to go mad cos obviously he’d-
      he’d never had anything like that.
C:    [laugh]
I:    [laugh]
R:    And just the smell of that, he- yeah, erm, [laugh] He weren’t very
      popular, but there was a Chinese one as well.
TIME [41.00]
R:    There was like a noodle one.
C:    Chow mein, that’s the one [anon] used to have.
R:    Chow mein that’s it.
C:    And it had like crisps on the top, like quavers.
R:    that’s it, yeah, yeah
C:    And she used to sizzle them in the chip pan.
R:    [inc]
C:    I just used to think that was- but I didn’t ever think that I was
      grown up enough
R:    mm
C:    to have these, I think I used to think it was something,
R:    yeah
C:    ‘when I’m a teenager, I’m going to have a curry.’
R:    but I can remember pizzas as well. When [anon] was at school she
      must’ve been about fourteen or so, she made this pizza. And it was
      like pretty much the first time I’d ever had pizza, but it wasn’t-
      wasn’t like a pizza, it was like you know, flour, just- it was like
      erm- more like a-.
C:    Like a bread base or something.
R:    Yeah, yeah but it was really, really thick bread with like cheese and
      tomato on it, or tomato puree.
C:    Like cheese on toast [laugh]
I:    [laugh]
R:    Yeah it was yeah, but with tomato puree, you know like [anon] makes
      now. And it was erm- that was it but it just had like a little bit of
      erm, green or yellow pepper which was really like unheard of at the
      time. And erm me mum used to love it when [anon] made that, she used
      to- you know especially when she used to make it at school and then
      bring it home.
TIME [42.00]
R:    And then heat it up again for tea,
C:    yeah
R:    it was like, you felt like you were really continental.
C:    [laugh]
R:    You know, ‘we don’t need the chip pan tonight.’ [laugh]
C:    Yeah.
R:    Cos pretty much everything I think involved chips I think as well.
C:    No well it did sometimes for us but we’d have these- I wonder where
      the hell she got those tinned potatoes from?
R:    mm
C:    Because they were just there all the time.
R:    mm, I know we- we used to have like boil- boiled potatoes. And things
      like that and obviously like we used to- we’d have like Sunday roast
      but we did- I think we had quite a lot of chips. Although, we were
      quite skinny kids, I don’t know why- why we weren’t big fatties.
C:    mm
R:    Perhaps we ran it all off.
C:    Yeah
R:    mm (6.0)
C:    I can remember when erm- I know it’s- well you wouldn’t even think it
      now, but when yoghurts first came in.
R:    God I-.
C:    When it first came in, I mean you know when it started getting
      popular.
R:    Mm.
C:    And er it was ski yoghurts,
R:    mm
C:    they were the ones to have. And er me mum used to do a weekly shop.
TIME [43.00]
C:    And as a treat, like you would bring home a cream cake, it would be,
      ‘right would you like a yoghurt? Which one would you like?’
R:    mmhmm
C:    And I would always have strawberry. And [anon] would always have
      mandarin.
R:    mm
C:    And I used to think- I used to feel a bit sorry for her because
      clearly strawberry was going to be the best.
I:    [laugh]
R:    [laugh] no, we didn’t have yoghurts. Didn’t ever-
C:    [laugh]
R:    I can’t ever remember having a yoghurt when I was a kid. I was
      probably about sixteen, seventeen before I saw a yoghurt. I don’t
      think- yeah definitely. Used to have quite a lot of carnation milk.
      And tinned fruit.
C:    Tinned- yeah tinned.
R:    Everybody had- I think everyone had like tinned pears and-.
C:    Tinned pears, yeah.
R:    Mixed fruit, like oranges and apples all chopped up.
C:    Well going back to these tinned potatoes, me uncle used to bring
      home, and I think it’s from bingo, I’m not quite sure where he got
      them from. And it was trays and trays of tins. Only they didn’t have
      labels on them.
R:    mm
C:    Well they did but they were all white. So you didn’t actually know
      what you were having.
TIME [44.00]
R:    mm
C:    So you might have opened it, hoping for some peaches and it would be
      a tin of carrots.
R:    mmhmm
I:    [laugh]
C:    Or something like that [laugh]. So sometimes- so then if you’d opened
      a couple of tins of carrots, looking for your peaches, obviously that
      was what your meal would have been the next day.
R:    mm
C:    Something with- and that’s how we used to work it.
R:    I tell you what we used to buy- did you have- ever have the er
      frankfurter sausages?
C:    No, never.
R:    We used to get those in tins, they were great those, they were
C:    No. Never used to have anything like that. Me mum was a bit funny
      about sausages. Which is probably why I’m a bit funny about them now,
R:    mm
I:    [laugh]
C:    and she still doesn’t eat them.
R:    No these were great. They were full of Es and everything.
I:    [laugh]
C:    yeah, yeah, no, she- she-
R:    there was every E in the world was in those.
C:    We never had anything like that, not that we did anything that was
      horrible or anything, the food we had was lovely but-. We never had
      things like beefburgers or anything because we didn’t have a fridge,
      that was the reason as well. Although I know those are tinned
      sausages.
R:    mm
C:    Cos erm we just used to keep everything in the pantry, which was cold
      and then in the summer the milk used to be in big saucepans of cold
      water. We used to just have to change the water, make it cold.
R:    mm, mm.
TIME [45.00]
C:    It used to work I don’t remember anything being- going off.
R:    No but you used to pretty much shop- you didn’t like weekly shop did
      you in those days, it was- it was
C:    No, cos it was not really big supermarkets, was it,
R:    no
C:    it was just like your local shops really.
R:    mm
C:    So
R:    Mm, but I know we used to have er cereals as well. I remember when it
      all- all these new cereals came out, like ricicles and rice crispies.
      And this- you always tried- when a new one came out on tv you always
      wanted to try it. Pretty much like you with anything new that comes on
      the tv these days. [laugh]
C:    [laugh]
I:    [laugh]
R:    within a week, we’ve got one! [laugh]
I:    do you want to do something else?
INTERVIEW TERMINATES [45.40]
